The story follows the adventures of Ben, a young boy who has recently moved to a new town. He is quickly befriended by two sisters, Bab and Betty, who introduce him to their world. One evening, after supper, the three children sit on the porch playing with the family dog and cat and discussing the day's events. They discuss the appearance of a strange boy and his dog who they had seen earlier in the day.

Ben tells the girls that he is going to work for the Squire in the morning and will not be able to play with them. Betty and Bab tell him that they will lend him their books to read while he is working. The girls go to bed and Ben is left alone with the dog. He climbs up to the top of the gate to look at the stars.

Suddenly, he hears a noise and sees the strange boy and his dog approaching. The boy introduces himself as Ben and his dog as Sancho. He tells the girls that he is going to work for the Squire in the morning and will not be able to play with them. Betty and Bab tell him that they will lend him their books to read while he is working. The girls go to bed and Ben is left alone with the dog. He climbs up to the top of the gate to look at the stars.

The boy tells Ben that he is looking for a place to sleep and asks if he can stay with them. Ben agrees and takes the boy into the house. The boy asks to sleep in the barn, but Ben tells him that he can sleep in the house. The boy says that he will sleep in the barn and gives Ben a dime.

The next morning, Ben wakes up early and goes to work. He is put to work gathering eggs and helping with the cows. He is also given a lesson in natural history by the boy.

At the end of the day, Ben is tired and goes to bed early. The next day, he wakes up early and goes to work. He is put to work gathering eggs and helping with the cows. He is also given a lesson in natural history by the boy.

At the end of the day, Ben is tired and goes to bed early. The next day, he wakes up early and goes to work. He is put to work gathering eggs and helping with the cows. He is also given a lesson in natural history by the boy.