A BAD BLUNDER(Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  When it was almost dark Grandaddy Beaver swam across the pond to the big  rock, where Ferdinand Frog had told him to come.

And trooping after Daddy was almost everybody in the village. Not  counting the women and children, there were eleven of them. They climbed  upon the rock, looking for Mr. Frog. But he was nowhere in sight.

"He'll be here in a minute or two, probably," Grandaddy Beaver said  hopefully, for all he looked a bit anxious.

Then somebody spied a neat building near-by, which not one of them had  noticed before.

"What's this strange house?" people asked one another. "Is this where  Mr. Frog lives?"

But nobody seemed to know the answer to that question.

"It can't be a shop," Grandaddy decided, "for there's no sign on it. And  nobody would have a shop without a sign."

Now, the door of the little building was shut and fastened. And the  window-shades were pulled carefully down. It certainly looked as if  nobody was at home.

But suddenly there came a sound that made the Beaver family jump. It  came from the house--there was no doubt of that.

In fact it came right through the keyhole; and it was like nothing in  the world but a sneeze.

A number of people were all ready to jump into the water and swim away,  they were so startled.

And then a snicker followed the sneeze. And by that time Grandaddy  Beaver and his friends guessed who was inside the building. It was  Ferdinand Frog; and he had been watching his callers all the time,  through the keyhole, and listening to everything that they said.

A few felt slightly uneasy, as they tried to remember exactly what  remarks they had made about Mr. Frog himself.

"Come out!" they all cried, as soon as they had recovered from their  surprise. "We want to see you!" And they formed a half-circle in the  dooryard.

Presently the door swung out, as if somebody had pushed it open. And  there, on the _inside_ of the open door, which was flung back against  the outside of the building, they all saw a sign, which said:





 MR. FERDINAND FROG



  UNFASHIONABLE TAILOR





ALL THE STYLES



   FIVE YEARS AHEAD





OF THE TIMES

People began exclaiming that that was just like Ferdinand Frog--who was  an odd fellow--to have his sign painted on the inside of his door  instead of on the outside.

"It'll be all the style five years from now," he retorted.

So that was Mr. Frog's secret! He was a tailor himself! And there he  was, ready to make clothes for all of them!

It was almost too good to be true. But there he stood in the doorway,  with a tape around his neck, smiling and bowing.

"You'd better form in line!" he suggested. "You can come in through the  front door. I'll measure you. And you can pass out the back way. . . .  Don't crowd, please!"

Now, that was just where Mr. Frog made a great blunder. But he didn't  find it out till it was too late.
