A BIT OF LUCK (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

JIMMY RABBIT promptly set Freddie Firefly's fears at rest.

"I happen to know," said he, "that Betsy Butterfly has a picture ofherself."

"Are you sure?" Freddie asked him eagerly.

"I ought to be," replied Jimmy Rabbit, "because I painted it myself, thevery next day after I finished a portrait of old Mr. Crow."

"It ought to be a good one, if you made it," said Freddie. "But wasn'tit some time ago that you were an artist?"

"It was earlier in the summer," Jimmy Rabbit admitted. "Of course,Betsy Butterfly has changed somewhat since then. But this picture was afine likeness of her at the time I painted it.... I suppose," he added,"I was the first one in the whole valley to perceive that she was goingto be a beauty when she got her full growth."

"Do you suppose she'll send me the picture, if I ask her, so I can showit to Dusty Moth?" Freddie asked.

Jimmy Rabbit looked a bit doubtful. He pondered for a few moments. Andthen he said:

"I'll tell you what I'll do! To-morrow morning I'll see Betsy and I'veno doubt that she'll loan me the picture if I promise to return it toher."

"That'll be great!" cried Freddie. "Meet me near the duck pond as soonas it's dark to-morrow night; and be sure to bring Betsy's picture withyou!"

Then Freddie Firefly hurried off to find Dusty Moth, who happenedlikewise to be looking for him, because he had a question to ask.

They met shortly. And Dusty Moth immediately cried:

"Have you heard from her?"--meaning Betsy Butterfly, of course.

"Now, see here!" Freddie Firefly said. "It's plain enough that Betsydoesn't care to meet you. But I have a plan that ought to suit you wellenough. If you could look at her picture once you'd be satisfied,wouldn't you?"

"I would--" replied Dusty Moth--"if I got my appetite back afterward."

"Well, will you promise to stop pestering me about Betsy Butterfly if Ilet you see this picture of her?"

"Yes! yes!" Dusty promised impatiently. "Where is it? Quick! Let me seeit!"

"Oh! You'll have to wait till to-morrow night," Freddie explained.

"I shall not be able to eat a single mouthful till then!" Dusty Mothgroaned.

"Well--you can suit yourself about that," Freddie told him impatiently."And please don't speak to me again to-night! I've been troubled enoughon your account without being bothered by you any more."

"One moment!" cried Dusty, as Freddie Firefly started to leave him.

"Well--what do you want now?" Freddie growled, flashing his lightimpatiently in Dusty Moth's eyes.

"Are you sure she will let you take the picture?" Dusty asked him.

"Yes! yes! Of course she will! Why shouldn't she, I should like to know?You certainly do ask the silliest questions!"

And yet Freddie Firefly had put the same query himself, to Jimmy Rabbit,only a short time before. But now he was quite certain that his worrieswere almost at an end.

"Betsy Butterfly has caused me a powerful lot of trouble!" Freddiegrumbled, as he hurried over the hollow, to join in the dance of theFirefly family.
