A BIT OF MISCHIEF (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  JASPER JAY did not heed Mr. Crow's warning. When he learned that Mr.  Red-shouldered Hawk was angry with him because he had imitated Mr.  Hawk's fierce cry, "_Kee-you! kee-you!_" Jasper was more pleased with  himself than ever. Scaring Farmer Green's hens with that piercing scream  had been a good deal of fun. But making Mr. Hawk angry was still more.

So Jasper Jay began to visit the farmyard even oftener than before. If  the mother-hens, with their chicks, did not happen to be scratching in  the barnyard, there was always sport of some sort to be had.

One day when Jasper was on his way to Farmer Green's place, he happened  to meet a blue jay friend of his known as Noisy Jake, because he was not  very quiet. In fact, one could almost always hear his voice ringing  through the woods.

"You seem to be in a hurry," Noisy Jake bawled. "Where are you going?"

"S-sh!" said Jasper. "I'm going to the farmyard to have some fun scaring  the hens. But I don't want everybody to know it. Do you want to come  along?"

Noisy Jake promptly said he did. So the two rascals hurried across the  pasture and over the meadow toward the farm buildings.

"Now----" said Jasper Jay, when they had reached the farmyard--"now I'll  hide in this oak here and you can hide in that one there." He pointed  to a tree a little further from the chicken house than the one where he  intended to perch. Naturally, it was not like Jasper Jay to give the  best seat to anybody else.

"What'll we do then?" Noisy Jake asked.

"You see those hens," said Jasper. "I'm going to scream like Mr.  Red-shouldered Hawk. And you'll laugh when the hens hurry their chicks  out of the way.... If you want to, you may scream too--but not till  after I have."

Noisy Jake agreed to Jasper's plan. And he quickly disappeared among the  branches of the oak to which Jasper had sent him.

Then Jasper just had to stop and laugh to himself over the fright he was  going to give the old hens. He was about to open his mouth to imitate  the cry of Mr. Hawk when something happened that made him terrible  angry.

"_Kee-you! kee-you!_" The fierce scream rang out over the farmyard. And  immediately the mother-hens called to their children, with frantic  _clucks_, to run for their lives into the chicken house.

Jasper Jay did not laugh at all over the way the chicks scurried out of  sight.

"Noisy Jake has played a mean trick on me!" he said to himself. "He went  and screamed before it was his turn!"

Since he didn't want to miss _all_ the fun, Jasper let out a  blood-curdling "_Kee-you! kee-you!_" himself, just to hurry the last hen  under cover. But, somehow, he had to confess to himself--though he  wouldn't have admitted it to anybody else--he had to confess that Noisy  Jake's cry sounded far more like Mr. Hawk's than did his own.

Of course, that did not make Jasper feel any pleasanter. He wished he  had not told Noisy Jake where he was going.

"I'll punish him for his meddling!" Jasper exclaimed. And he flew  straight for the tree where Noisy Jake had hidden.

But Jasper did not reach the tree.

"_Kee-you! kee-you!_" The cry came from above his head. And looking up,  Jasper Jay saw Mr. Red-shouldered Hawk himself, dropping down like  lightning out of the sky.

Mr. Hawk paid not the slightest attention to the frightened hens and  their chicks. He seemed to have eyes only for Jasper Jay. And on his  proud, cruel face there was a look of anger that made Jasper wish he had  never, never imitated Mr. Hawk's cry.

He was sorry now, that he had not heeded Mr. Crow's warning. But his  cousin, old Mr. Crow, was always looking solemn and croaking loudly  about "trouble." It was no wonder that people paid little attention to  what he said.
