A BIT OF ADVICE (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  "It's like this," Fatty Coon said, puffing a bit--on account of his  climb--as he looked up at Dickie Deer Mouse. "Old Mr. Crow says that  Farmer Green is going to sick old dog Spot on me if I don't keep out of  the cornfield."

"Well, I should say it was very kind of Mr. Crow to tell you," Dickie  remarked.

Fatty Coon was not so sure of that.

"He'd like to have the cornfield to himself," he told Dickie. "He'd like  nothing better than to keep me out of it. And if old dog Spot is coming  there after me, I certainly don't want to go near the place again."

"Then I'd stay away, if I were you," Dickie Deer Mouse told him.

"Ah! That's just the trouble!" Fatty Coon cried. "I can't! I'm too fond  of corn. And that's why I've come here to have a word with you," he went  on. "I've noticed that you haven't set foot in the cornfield since I  spoke to you over there in the middle of the day. And I want you to tell  me how you manage to stay away."

"Something seems to pull me right away from it," Dickie Deer Mouse told  him.

Fatty Coon groaned.

"Something seems to pull me _towards_ the corn!" he wailed.

Dickie Deer Mouse couldn't help feeling sorry for him.

"If there was only something else that you liked better than green  corn," he said, "perhaps it would help you to keep away from this new  danger."

"But there isn't!" Fatty Coon exclaimed.

"Have you ever tried _horns_?" Dickie Deer Mouse asked him.

Fatty Coon looked puzzled.

"What kind?" he asked his small friend.

"Deer's!" Dickie explained. "You know they drop them in the woods  sometimes. I've had many a meal off deer's horns. And I can say  truthfully that there's nothing quite like them when you're hungry."

Fatty Coon actually began to look hopeful.

"I'm always hungry," he announced. "And perhaps if I could get a taste  of deer's horns they would keep my mind off the cornfield. Where did  you say I could find some?"

"I didn't say," Dickie Deer Mouse reminded him; "but I don't object to  telling you where to look. They're generally to be found in the woods,  near the foot of a tree."

Fatty Coon's face brightened at once.

"Then it ought to be easy for me to get a taste of some," he cried. And  he began to crawl down the tree even as he spoke.

He did not thank Dickie Deer Mouse for his help. But that was like  Fatty. Always having his mind on eatables, he was more than likely to  forget to be polite.

Little Dickie Deer Mouse smiled as he watched the actions of his late  caller. The instant Fatty Coon reached the ground he began to look  under the trees--first one and then another.

"Don't miss a single tree!" Dickie called to him.

"Don't worry!" Fatty Coon replied. "I'm going to keep looking until I  find some deer's horns. And I hope I'll like 'em when I find 'em, for  I'm terribly hungry right now."

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
