A BLOW FOR THE BULLY (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  JASPER JAY had some queer notions in his head. One of them was that a  person couldn't be happy unless he was making a great deal of noise. And  if there was anything that roused Jasper's wrath, it was the sight of  some quiet, modest little neighbor who minded his own affairs and had  little to say.

There was one such chap who made his home in a wild grapevine that grew  upon the stone wall in front of the farmhouse. His name was Mr. Chippy;  and he was never known to do anybody the least bit of harm. On the  contrary, he was quite helpful to Farmer Green's wife, for he went to  the farmhouse almost every day and cleared the crumbs off the kitchen  doorstep.

But Jasper Jay complained that Mr. Chippy was altogether too humble.

"He never says anything except '_Chip, chip, chip, chip_,'" Jasper often  remarked. "And his voice is so high and thin that anybody would think he  was a little old lady, to hear him. He's too quiet to get on in the  world. And as for a good time, I don't believe he ever had one in all  his life."

Jasper said a good many other unpleasant things about mild Mr. Chippy.  And one day when the saucy rascal had nothing better to do he flew over  to the stone wall just to talk to Mr. Chippy and tell him what he  thought of him.

"Hi there, red-head!" Jasper Jay shouted. "Come out here on the wall! I  want to see you."

Mr. Chippy thrust his chestnut crowned head through the leaves of the  wild grapevine. And one could hardly say that he looked pleased. Like  most people, he was not overjoyed by Jasper Jay's visits. But he crept  on top of the stone wall and _chipped_ a how-dy-do to his caller.

"That's no way to greet anybody!" cried Jasper Jay, rudely. "If you want  to make a person feel that he is welcome you ought to speak up good and  loud--and slap him on the back. And you must look happy, too."

Little Mr. Chippy smiled faintly.

But Jasper Jay was not satisfied.

"You don't look happy!" he scoffed. "You appear as if you had a pain  somewhere.... Come, now! Let me hear you give a hearty laugh!"

If Mr. Chippy had known that his caller was going to be so rude he would  have stayed hidden in the wild grapevine. And now he wished that Jasper  would go away and leave him in peace. As for laughing, he saw nothing at  all to laugh at.

"You'd better do as I tell you!" Jasper Jay warned him. And he raised  his crest and stamped angrily upon the stone wall. "You're altogether  too _quiet_. I want you to laugh _loud_.

"You're going to be happy, if I have to break every bone in your body,"  Jasper added.

Naturally, that threat did not help little Mr. Chippy to laugh. Instead,  he looked quite worried. He knew that Jasper Jay was a bully. And there  was no telling what he might do to anyone so small as Mr. Chippy was. So  he tried his best to please Jasper. But he was so upset that he could  manage only a feeble "_Chip, chip, chip, chip!_"

"That'll never do," Jasper told him.

"Maybe this will, then," said Mr. Chippy, quietly. And darting at Jasper  Jay, he knocked him off the stone wall before Jasper knew what was  happening.

Jasper Jay was furious. He scrambled quickly back upon the wall. But Mr.  Chippy had vanished. He had dived under the cover of the grapevine and  hid in a chink between the stones, where Jasper could not find him.

"I declare--" said Jasper Jay at last--"I declare, he's got away from  me!" And so Jasper went off, shaking his head. He had never supposed  that mild Mr. Chippy would dare do anything so bold as to knock anybody  off a stone wall.

It is plain that Jasper Jay had never learned that one can be brave  without boasting. And as he flew off across the road toward the river,  Jasper thought he heard a peculiar noise from the depths of the wild  grapevine.

It was only Mr. Chippy, chuckling to himself. For Jasper had made him  quite happy, after all--though not exactly in the way that the  blue-coated bully had intended.
