A BOY'S BARGAIN (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 10)

It was some days before the children were tired of talking over Ben's  birthday party; for it was a great event in their small world; but,  gradually, newer pleasures came to occupy their minds, and they began to  plan the nutting frolics which always followed the early frosts. While  waiting for Jack to open the chestnut burrs, they varied the monotony of  school life by a lively scrimmage long known as "the wood-pile fight."

The girls liked to play in the half-empty shed, and the boys, merely for  the fun of teasing, declared that they should not, so blocked up the  doorway as fast as the girls cleared it. Seeing that the squabble was a  merry one, and the exercise better for all than lounging in the sun or  reading in school during recess, Teacher did not interfere, and the  barrier rose and fell almost as regularly as the tide.

It would be difficult to say which side worked the harder; for the boys  went before school began to build up the barricade, and the girls stayed  after lessons were over to pull down the last one made in afternoon  recess. They had their play-time first; and, while the boys waited  inside, they heard the shouts of the girls, the banging of the wood, and  the final crash, as the well-packed pile went down. Then, as the lassies  came in, rosy, breathless, and triumphant, the lads rushed out to man  the breach, and labor gallantly till all was as tight as hard blows  could make it.

So the battle raged, and bruised knuckles, splinters in fingers, torn  clothes, and rubbed shoes, were the only wounds received, while a great  deal of fun was had out of the maltreated logs, and a lasting peace  secured between two of the boys.

When the party was safely over, Sam began to fall into his old way of  tormenting Ben by calling names, as it cost no exertion to invent trying  speeches, and slyly utter them when most likely to annoy. Ben bore it as  well as he could; but fortune favored him at last, as it usually does  the patient, and he was able to make his own terms with his tormentor.

When the girls demolished the wood-pile, they performed a jubilee chorus  on combs, and tin kettles, played like tambourines; the boys celebrated  their victories with shrill whistles, and a drum accompaniment with  fists on the shed walls. Billy brought his drum, and this was such an  addition that Sam hunted up an old one of his little brother's, in order  that he might join the drum corps. He had no sticks, however, and,  casting about in his mind for a good substitute for the genuine thing,  bethought him of bulrushes.

"Those will do first-rate, and there are lots in the ma'sh, if I can  only get 'em," he said to himself, and turned off from the road on his  way home to get a supply.

Now, this marsh was a treacherous spot, and the tragic story was told of  a cow who got in there and sank till nothing was visible but a pair of  horns above the mud, which suffocated the unwary beast. For this reason  it was called "Cowslip Marsh," the wags said, though it was generally  believed to be so named for the yellow flowers which grew there in great  profusion in the spring.

Sam had seen Ben hop nimbly from one tuft of grass to another when he  went to gather cowslips for Betty, and the stout boy thought he could do  the same. Two or three heavy jumps landed him, not among the bulrushes,  as he had hoped, but in a pool of muddy water, where he sank up to his  middle with alarming rapidity. Much scared, he tried to wade out, but  could only flounder to a tussock of grass, and cling there, while he  endeavored to kick his legs free. He got them out, but struggled in vain  to coil them up or to hoist his heavy body upon the very small island in  this sea of mud. Down they splashed again; and Sam gave a dismal groan  as he thought of the leeches and water-snakes which might be lying in  wait below. Visions of the lost cow also flashed across his agitated  mind, and he gave a despairing shout very like a distracted "Moo!"

Few people passed along the lane, and the sun was setting, so the  prospect of a night in the marsh nerved Sam to make a frantic plunge  toward the bulrush island, which was nearer than the mainland, and  looked firmer than any tussock round him. But he failed to reach this  haven of rest, and was forced to stop at an old stump which stuck up,  looking very like the moss-grown horns of the "dear departed." Roosting  here, Sam began to shout for aid in every key possible to the human  voice. Such hoots and howls, whistles and roars, never woke the echoes  of the lonely marsh before, or scared the portly frog who resided there  in calm seclusion.

He hardly expected any reply but the astonished "Caw!" of the crow, who  sat upon a fence watching him with gloomy interest; and when a cheerful  "Hullo, there!" sounded from the lane, he was so grateful that tears of  joy rolled down his fat cheeks.

"Come on! I'm in the ma'sh.  Lend a hand and get me out!" bawled Sam,  anxiously waiting for his deliverer to appear, for he could only see a  hat bobbing along behind the hazel-bushes that fringed the lane.

Steps crashed through the bushes, and then over the wall came an active  figure, at the sight of which Sam was almost ready to dive out of sight,  for, of all possible boys, who should it be but Ben, the last person in  the world whom he would like to have see him in his present pitiful  plight.

"Is it you, Sam? Well, you are in a nice fix!" and Ben's eyes began to  twinkle with mischievous merriment, as well they might, for Sam  certainly was a spectacle to convulse the soberest person. Perched  unsteadily on the gnarled stump, with his muddy legs drawn up, his  dismal face splashed with mud, and the whole lower half of his body as  black as if he had been dipped in an inkstand, he presented such a  comically doleful object that Ben danced about, laughing like a naughty  will-o'-the-wisp who, having led a traveller astray then fell to jeering  at him.

"Stop that, or I'll knock your head off!" roared Sam, in a rage.

"Come on and do it; I give you leave," answered Ben, sparring away  derisively as the other tottered on his perch, and was forced to hold  tight lest he should tumble off.

"Don't laugh, there 's a good chap, but fish me out somehow, or I shall  get my death sitting here all wet and cold," whined Sam, changing his  tune, and feeling bitterly that Ben had the upper hand now.

Ben felt it also; and, though a very good-natured boy, could not resist  the temptation to enjoy this advantage for a moment at least.

"I won't laugh if I can help it; only you do look so like a fat,  speckled frog, I may not be able to hold in. I'll pull you out pretty  soon; but first I'm going to talk to you, Sam," said Ben, sobering down  as he took a seat on the little point of land nearest the stranded  Samuel.

"Hurry up, then; I'm as stiff as a board now, and it's no fun sitting  here on this knotty old thing," growled Sam, with a discontented squirm.

"Dare say not, but 'it is good for you,' as you say when you rap me over  the head. Look here, I've got you in a tight place, and I don't mean to  help you a bit till you promise to let me alone. Now then!" and Ben's  face grew stern with his remembered wrongs as he grimly eyed his  discomfited foe.

"I'll promise fast enough if you won't tell anyone about this," answered  Sam, surveying himself and his surroundings with great disgust.

"I shall do as I like about that."

"Then I won't promise a thing! I'm not going to have the whole school  laughing at me," protested Sam, who hated to be ridiculed even more than  Ben did.

"Very well; good-night!" and Ben walked off with his hands in his  pockets as coolly as if the bog was Sam's favorite retreat.

"Hold on, don't be in such a hurry!" shouted Sam, seeing little hope of  rescue if he let this chance go.

"All right!" and back came Ben, ready for further negotiations.

"I'll promise not to plague you, if you'll promise not to tell on me.  Is that what you want?"

"Now I come to think of it, there is one thing more. I like to make a  good bargain when I begin," said Ben, with a shrewd air. "You must  promise to keep Mose quiet, too. He follows your lead, and if you tell  him to stop it he will. If I was big enough, I'd make you hold your  tongues. I ain't, so we'll try this way."

"Yes, Yes, I'll see to Mose.  Now, bring on a rail, there's a good  fellow. I've got a horrid cramp in my legs," began Sam, thinking he had  bought help dearly, yet admiring Ben's cleverness in making the most of  his chance.

Ben brought the rail, but, just as he was about to lay it from the  main-land to the nearest tussock, he stopped, saying, with the naughty  twinkle in his black eyes again, "One more little thing must be settled  first, and then I'll get you ashore. Promise you won't plague the girls  either, 'specially Bab and Betty. You pull their hair, and they don't  like it."

"Don't neither!  Wouldn't touch that Bab for a dollar; she scratches and  bites like a mad cat," was Sam's sulky reply.

"Glad of it; she can take care of herself.  Betty can't; and if you  touch one of her pig-tails I'll up and tell right out how I found you  snivelling in the ma'sh like a great baby. So now!" and Ben emphasized  his threat with a blow of the suspended rail which splashed the water  over poor Sam, quenching his last spark of resistance.

"Stop! I will!--I will!"

"True as you live and breathe!" demanded Ben, sternly binding him by the  most solemn oath he knew.

"True as I live and breathe," echoed Sam, dolefully relinquishing his  favorite pastime of pulling Betty's braids and asking if she was at  home.

"I'll come over there and crook fingers on the bargain," said Ben,  settling the rail and running over it to the tuft, then bridging another  pool and crossing again till he came to the stump.

"I never thought of that way," said Sam, watching him with much inward  chagrin at his own failure.

"I should think you'd written 'Look before you leap,' in your copy-book  often enough to get the idea into your stupid head. Come, crook,"  commanded Ben, leaning forward with extended little finger. Sam  obediently performed the ceremony, and then Ben sat astride one of the  horns of the stump while the muddy Crusoe went slowly across the rail  from point to point till he landed safely on the shore, when he turned  about and asked with an ungrateful jeer,--

"Now what's going to become of you, old Look-before-you-leap?"

"Mud turtles can only sit on a stump and bawl till they are taken off,  but frogs have legs worth something, and are not afraid of a little  water," answered Ben, hopping away in an opposite direction, since the  pools between him and Sam were too wide for even his lively legs.

Sam waddled off to the brook in the lane to rinse the mud from his  nether man before facing his mother, and was just wringing himself out  when Ben came up, breathless but good natured, for he felt that he had  made an excellent bargain for himself and friends.

"Better wash your face; it's as speckled as a tiger-lily.  Here's my  handkerchief if yours is wet," he said, pulling out a dingy article  which had evidently already done service as a towel.

"Don't want it," muttered Sam, gruffly, as he poured the water out of  his muddy shoes.

"I was taught to say 'Thanky' when folks got me out of scrapes.  But  you never had much bringing up, though you do 'live in a house with a  gambrel roof,'" retorted Ben, sarcastically quoting Sam's frequent  boast; then he walked off, much disgusted with the ingratitude of man.

Sam forgot his manners, but he remembered his promise, and kept it so  well that all the school wondered. No one could guess the secret of  Ben's power over him, though it was evident that he had gained it in  some sudden way, for at the least sign of Sam's former tricks Ben would  crook his little finger and wag it warningly, or call out "Bulrushes!"  and Sam subsided with reluctant submission, to the great amazement of  his mates. When asked what it meant, Sa, turned sulky; but Ben had much  fun out of it, assuring the other boys that those were the signs and  password of a secret society to which he and Sam belonged, and promised  to tell them all about it if Sam would give him leave, which, of course,  he would not.

This mystery, and the vain endeavors to find it out caused a lull in the  war of the wood-pile, and before any new game was invented something  happened which gave the children plenty to talk about for a time.

A week after the secret alliance was formed, Ben ran in one evening with  a letter for Miss Celia. He found her enjoying the cheery blaze of the  pine-cones the little girls had picked up for her, and Bab and Betty sat  in the small chairs rocking luxuriously as they took turns to throw on  the pretty fuel. Miss Celia turned quickly to receive the expected  letter, glanced at the writing, post-mark and stamp, with an air of  delighted surprise, then clasped it close in both hands, saying, as she  hurried out of the room,--

"He has come! he has come! Now you may tell them, Thorny."

"Tell its what? asked Bab, pricking up her cars at once.

"Oh, it's only that George has come, and I suppose we shall go and get  married right away," answered Thorny, rubbing his hands as if he enjoyed  the prospect.

"Are you going to be married?  asked Betty, so soberly that the boys  shouted, and Thorny, with difficulty composed himself sufficiently to  explain.

"No, child, not just yet; but sister is, and I must go and see that all  is done up ship-shape, and bring you home some wedding-cake. Ben will  take care of you while I'm gone."

"When shall you go?" asked Bab, beginning to long for her share of cake.

"To-morrow, I guess.  Celia has been packed and ready for a week.  We  agreed to meet George in New York, and be married as soon as he got his  best clothes unpacked. We are men of our word, and off we go. Won't it  be fun?"

"But when will you come back again?" questioned Betty, looking anxious.

"Don't know.  Sister wants to come soon, but I'd rather have our  honeymoon somewhere else,--Niagara, Newfoundland, West Point, or the  Rocky Mountains," said Thorny, mentioning a few of the places he most  desired to see.

"Do you like him?" asked Ben, very naturally wondering if the new master  would approve of the young man-of-all-work.

"Don't I? George is regularly jolly; though now he's a minister, perhaps  he'll stiffen up and turn sober. Won't it be a shame if he does?" and  Thorny looked alarmed at the thought of losing his congenial friend.

"Tell about him; Miss Celia said you might", put in Bab, whose  experience of "jolly" ministers had been small.

"Oh, there isn't much about it.  We met in Switzerland going up Mount  St. Bernard in a storm, and--"

"Where the good dogs live?" inquired Betty, hoping they would come into  the story.

"Yes; we spent the night up there, and George gave us his room; the  house was so full, and he wouldn't let me go down a steep place where I  wanted to, and Celia thought he'd saved my life, and was very good to  him. Then we kept meeting, and the first thing I knew she went and was  engaged to him. I didn't care, only she would come home so he might go  on studying hard and get through quick. That was a year ago, and last  winter we were in New York at uncle's; and then, in the spring, I was  sick, and we came here, and that's all."

"Shall you live here always when you come back? asked Bab, as Thorny  paused for breath.

"Celia wants to.  I shall go to college, so I don't mind.  George is  going to help the old minister here and see how he likes it. I'm to  study with him, and if he is as pleasant as he used to be we shall have  capital times,--see if we don't."

"I wonder if he will want me round," said Ben, feeling no desire to be a  tramp again.

"I do, so you needn't fret about that, my hearty," answered Thorny, with  a resounding slap on the shoulder which reassured Ben more than any  promises.

"I'd like to see a live wedding, then we could play it with our dolls.  I've got a nice piece of mosquito netting for a veil, and Belinda's  white dress is clean. Do you s'pose Miss Celia will ask us to hers?"  said Betty to Bab, as the boys began to discuss St. Bernard dogs with  Spirit.

"I wish I could, dears," answered a voice behind them; and there was  Miss Celia, looking so happy that the little girls wondered what the  letter could have said to give her such bright eyes and smiling lips. "I  shall not be gone long, or be a bit changed when I come back, to live  among you years I hope, for I am fond of the old place now, and mean it  shall be home," she added, caressing the yellow heads as if they were  dear to her.

"Oh, goody!" cried Bab, while Betty whispered with both arms round Miss  Celia,--

"I don't think we could bear to have anybody else come here to live."

"It is very pleasant to hear you say that, and I mean to make others  feel so, if I can. I have been trying a little this summer, but when I  come back I shall go to work in earnest to be a good minister's wife,  and you must help me."

"We will," promised both children, ready for any thing except preaching  in the high pulpit.

Then Miss Celia turned to Ben, saying, in the respectful way that always  made him feel at least twenty-five,--

"We shall be off to-morrow, and I leave you in charge.  Go on just as if  we were here, and be sure nothing will be changed as far as you are  concerned when we come back."

Ben's face beamed at that; but the only way he could express his relief  was by making such a blaze in honor of the occasion that he nearly  roasted the company.

Next morning, the brother and sister slipped quietly away, and the  children hurried to school, eager to tell the great news that "Miss  Celia and Thorny had gone to be married, and were coming back to live  here for ever and ever."
