A BOLD STRANGER (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Tommy Fox had carefully kept from Grumpy Weasel the name of the stranger  who was dressed like Grumpy, in white and black. It happened that he  wore feathers--this newcomer. And that was one reason why Tommy Fox had  had to grin when Grumpy threatened to "make the fur fly" when he met the  unknown.

Another reason why Tommy had laughed at Grumpy's blustering was that the  stranger was quite able to take care of himself in a fight. He belonged  to the Snowy Owl family, being bigger, even, than Solomon Owl. And what  with his hooked beak and his strong talons he was a dangerous fellow to  meet. Although Grumpy Weasel could easily handle a rabbit or a wild duck  a dozen times his own size, because they were unarmed, he would have had  no chance at all with Mr. Snowy Owl.

All this made Tommy Fox chuckle and grin, as he left Grumpy and loped  off towards Cedar Swamp, where Mr. Snowy Owl was spending the winter.  Unlike Solomon Owl, and his cousin Simon Screecher, Mr. Snowy Owl did  not turn night into day. So Tommy Fox found him wide awake and ready for  a fight or a frolic, whichever might come his way.

He was a handsome bird--this newcomer--in his showy white suit, spotted  with black. And he gave Tommy Fox a bold, hard look, acting for all the  world as if he had spent his whole life in Pleasant Valley, instead of  merely two short weeks.

Now, Mr. Snowy Owl knew a good deal about such rascals as Tommy Fox. So  he said at once, "What's on your mind, young man? You've come here on  mischief and you needn't deny it."

Well, Tommy Fox saw that he couldn't deceive Mr. Owl very much. So he  grinned at him and told him about the talk he had just had with Grumpy  Weasel.

"He's so eager to meet you it would be too bad to disappoint him," Tommy  observed. "He wants the fur to fly, you know."

Although he had no ears (at least, so far as could be seen) Mr. Snowy  Owl had listened closely to Tommy Fox's story. And he must have heard  plainly enough, for he said quickly that he would call on Grumpy Weasel  that very day. "I'll start right now," he said, "and I'll reach Grumpy  Weasel's hunting ground before you're out of the swamp."

"I wish you'd wait a bit, till I can get there myself," Tommy Fox told  him.

Mr. Snowy Owl agreed to that. And after lingering until he thought Tommy  must have had time to run and find Grumpy Weasel he rose above the tops  of the cedars and sailed off to join them himself.

"I'm glad I came here to spend the winter," he muttered. "Everybody's  been very pleasant so far. And after people hear how I've settled with  this Weasel person the folks in Pleasant Valley will be pretty polite to  me, or I'll know the reason why."
