A BREAKFAST INVITATION (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

For a moment or two Benny Badger looked at the deer mouse without sayinga word. He told himself that here was a country person who couldn't everhave travelled much, or he would have known better than to make such aremark. . . . Spoil the whole neighborhood indeed! . . . Benny's liptwisted up in something like a sneer.

"Don't you worry!" he snorted. "I don't believe you ever saw afirst-class digger before. I'm not going to spoil the neighborhood. I'm_improving_ it. I'm making a fine house here--probably the finest thereis for miles around."

The deer mouse appeared ashamed. Of course he didn't like to seemstupid.

"But why do you dig in so many places?" he faltered.

"That's my way," Benny Badger told him. "As soon as I get one den wellstarted I think I'd rather live somewhere else. But I don't mindbeginning again because there's no better exercise than digging."

"No doubt!" the deer mouse agreed. "But I'm sure it would be much tooviolent for me."

He said no more, but looked on with a puzzled air until at last BennyBadger had actually dug in one place long enough to make a deep den.

When it was quite finished Benny Badger brushed the dirt off himself andturned to Mr. Deer Mouse.

"Come inside and see if my new house isn't the finest one you eversaw!" he said.

For some reason Mr. Deer Mouse did not seem eager to enter. To be sure,he thanked Benny for the invitation, but he backed away a few steps andsaid that he thought he'd better not look at the new house that morning."I--I haven't the time to spare," he mumbled.

Benny Badger couldn't understand that remark. The white-footed gentlemanhad had plenty of time to spend while watching him dig the den. AndBenny said as much, too.

"That's exactly the point," said the deer mouse. "I've spent so muchtime already that I've used it all up."

Well, Benny Badger couldn't understand that either.

"Used up all the time!" he cried scornfully. "Isn't there plenty morewhere the other time came from?"

"Oh, to be sure--to be sure!" said the deer mouse, who seemed ready toagree to anything--except to Benny's invitation. "But there is anotherreason why I mustn't visit your new home this morning: I'm hungry. Ihaven't had my breakfast yet."

Suddenly Benny Badger remembered that he was hungry himself.

And as he stared at plump Mr. Deer Mouse a certain idea came into hishead. And he looked Mr. Deer up and down before he spoke.

"I haven't had my breakfast either," he said at last. "I'm ready for agood meal. Come right in and join me!"

But something made Mr. Deer Mouse say, "No, thank you!" _Joining abadger at breakfast!_ Somehow that had a dangerous sound.
