A Brave Little Bird (Fable:- Ages 5 to 10)

  It was not long before Frisky Squirrel began to see that he had got  himself into something very like a fix. It had been fairly easy to  dodge Mr. Hawk alone. But things were quite different now. Mr. Hawk  would come hurtling down upon him from one direction; and Mrs. Hawk  would swoop down upon him from another. It was all very confusing,  because Frisky could not watch both of them at once.

He called to his mother, because he began to be frightened. But Mrs.  Squirrel was not at home. Frisky did not know what to do. He tried to  reach his home in the big hickory tree near-by; but Mr. and Mrs. Hawk  wouldn't let him go near it. And when he felt one of Mr. Hawk's sharp  talons dig into his back Frisky thought that his end had come. But he  escaped that time, though Mrs. Hawk nearly caught him just two seconds  later.

I am afraid _The Tale of Frisky Squirrel_ would have ended right here,  if somebody had not come to Frisky's help. Fortunately, there was a  small, olive-green bird who lived with his wife not far from Frisky  Squirrel's home. Mr. Kinglet was his name. And though he was a tiny  fellow he had a heart like a lion's. I suppose that in all the country  around Blue Mountain there was no braver fellow than he. And his wife  was brave too. Although they both wore very dull-colored clothes, if  you took a good look at Mr. Kinglet you could see that he always wore  a bright red crown. He was very modest about his crown, and generally  wore it so that only a little of it showed. But whenever he went out  to fight, as the forest-people are often obliged to, that beautiful  red crown might be seen as plain as could be.

Now, it happened that Mrs. Kinglet heard Mr. and Mrs. Hawk talking to  each other, as they tried to capture Frisky Squirrel, and she heard  the other forest-people shouting, too. So she called to Mr. Kinglet  that somebody seemed to be in trouble; and he came hurrying up at  once.

When the little frightened wren screamed, Mr. Kinglet made up his mind  that it was time for him to do something. And he pushed his red crown  up on the top of his head where it would show better and he flew  straight toward Mr. Hawk.

Mr. Kinglet flew up over Mr. Hawk's head, and then he darted down and  lighted right in the middle of Mr. Hawk's broad back, and began  pecking him as hard as he could with his sharp little bill.

Mr. Hawk stopped trying to catch Frisky. He had all he wanted to do to  shake that bold little fellow off his back. And though Mrs. Hawk still  swooped down at Frisky Squirrel, brave Mr. Kinglet's brave little wife  began to fly at _her_ so fiercely that Mrs. Hawk couldn't keep Frisky  from reaching the tree where he lived.

He was very glad to get home, you may be sure. And he dived in through  the door and was out of sight in no time. But pretty soon he stuck his  head out again to see what was happening. Mr. and Mrs. Hawk had  vanished. And all the forest-people were thanking Mr. and Mrs. Kinglet  for driving them away. Frisky Squirrel thanked them, too. And when he  remembered how he had sometimes teased Mrs. Kinglet by visiting her  nest he felt very much ashamed, and he promised himself that he would  never trouble her again.
