A BRAVE GENTLEMAN (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  MRS. LADYBUG didn't know that the frog she saw was a very timid fellow.  His name was Mr. Cricket Frog. He liked to sit on a lily pad and sing.  And his singing sounded a good deal like the music that Chirpy Cricket  made. In fact, that was the reason for his odd name.

Mr. Cricket Frog had a trick not unlike the one that Mrs. Ladybug  herself played upon him. Whenever a fish, or any other enemy, came near  him, if he hadn't time to hide in the mud at the bottom of the pond Mr.  Cricket Frog played dead. He would float in the water as if lifeless,  until his enemy had gone off about his business.

He was so timid--this Mr. Cricket Frog--that when he saw a stranger he  would sometimes play dead. And that was exactly what happened when he  caught sight of Mrs. Ladybug as she clung to the grass stalk near the  edge of the duck pond and stared at him.

Of course Mrs. Ladybug didn't know all this. When she shut her eyes, and  pulled her feet under her body, she wasn't aware that Mr. Cricket Frog  was just as alarmed as she was. Having closed her eyes, she couldn't see  him jump into the water and float. She couldn't see him climb out upon  the lily pad again and gaze at her.

Now, the moment Mrs. Ladybug looked at the frog the second time he took  fright anew. Once more he sprang from his seat. Once more he floated  like a chip upon the surface of the pond. Once more he crawled back to  his seat, after he had made up his mind that the danger had passed.

So they played dead for a long time--both Mrs. Ladybug and Mr. Cricket  Frog. And if he hadn't at last made up his mind that she was afraid of  him, they might still be trying to fool each other.

"Pardon me, madam!" Mr. Cricket Frog called to Mrs. Ladybug. "I see  you're a bit timid. I assure you I shall not harm you."

At that Mrs. Ladybug opened her eyes and looked at him. Slowly she  thrust her feet out from under her body. And then she tried her wings.  They were as good as ever. Her fall had not injured them.

"You gave me a terrible fright," Mrs. Ladybug told him.

Mr. Cricket Frog was very bold now.

"Why were you afraid of me?" he asked her. "Do I look fierce?" he  inquired with a hopeful smile, as if he hoped that he did, but scarcely  dared think so.

"I'm afraid of all frogs," Mrs. Ladybug explained. "Now, there's  Ferdinand Frog--"

"A rascal!" Mr. Cricket Frog cried. "But, madam, I'm not in the least  like him. I wouldn't hurt you. In fact, I'd protect you."

His words pleased Mrs. Ladybug. She said that thereafter she should  always feel safe, with him in the neighborhood.

Mr. Cricket Frog bowed gallantly, with his hand on his heart.

And Mrs. Ladybug went away without guessing that he had himself played  dead because he had been in terror of her.

"What a brave gentleman he is!" Mrs. Ladybug murmured.
