A BRIDEGROOM (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  DADDY LONGLEGS was taken entirely by surprise. It was rather early in  the morning. And he had not expected callers--at least not so many as  suddenly appeared at the stone wall where he was usually to be found.

Luckily he was arrayed in his very best clothes. Indeed, he was quite  smartly dressed--for him. A bright yellow scarf, tied in a big bow  beneath his chin, made him look almost dandified. And he was wearing a  bottle-green coat, lined with pink.

"Goodness!" said Buster Bumblebee. "He looks like a bridegroom!" But  his companions all told him to hush, and not to be disrespectful to his  elders.

"Good morning!" said Mr. Chippy to Daddy Longlegs. "We've come to tell  you some good news. We're going to call you by a different name. And we  hope you'll like it."

"I hope so!" Daddy Longlegs echoed. "What is it, please?"

"It's 'Grandfather Graybeard'!" little Mr. Chippy informed him with an  air of pride.

"Why, that's a beautiful name!" Daddy Longlegs cried, as a look of  pleasure crossed his face.

"I'm glad you think so," said Mr. Chippy. "It's only fair to tell you  that I thought of it myself."

And then he called for "three cheers for Grandfather Graybeard!"

They gave them with a right good will.

And after the sound had died away Mr. Chippy said something in a whisper  to Daddy.

"What is it?" Rusty Wren demanded. "What's he talking about?"

"He thinks we ought to give three cheers for him," Daddy Longlegs  explained.

But before they had time to do that a large lady bustled out from the  stone wall and walked straight up to Daddy Longlegs. She was one of his  own kind, too. The whole company agreed to that, afterwards; because  they had all counted her feet. And she had eight.

"What's this?" the newcomer demanded. "What's going on here, I should  like to know?"

And Daddy Longlegs looked a bit uncomfortable as he explained that he  had a new name, and told her what it was.

"You haven't given your consent, I hope?" she said.

"I'm afraid I have," Daddy replied meekly.

"Then withdraw it at once!" she commanded sharply. "I don't like this  new name at all."

Poor Daddy Longlegs looked as if he wished he might sink into the ground  and vanish. But since he couldn't do that, he stammered that he was much  obliged to his friends for their kindness, but he really would have to  insist that they call him by his old name, and he hoped they would  understand.

But they didn't understand even then. And the whole company stood  silent, with their mouths open, and watched Daddy Longlegs follow the  strange lady away. She had beckoned to him. And he had started after  her without a word of protest.

His friends noticed that she was considerably bigger than he was.

Well, they might have been standing there yet if little Mrs. Ladybug  hadn't arrived just then, quite out of breath from hurrying. And of  course she wanted to know what had happened.

"For pity's sake!" she cried, after she had listened to the strange  story. "Do you mean to say you haven't heard the news? Didn't you know  that Daddy Longlegs had a new wife? Naturally, a _bride_ wouldn't care  to have her young husband known as 'Grandfather Graybeard.'"

"Ah! But he's very old!" said little Mr. Chippy.

"How do you know?" Mrs. Ladybug inquired.

Mr. Chippy had to admit that he had no means of knowing.

And then Mrs. Ladybug looked very wise.

"I have reason to believe," she said "that Daddy Longlegs is a much  younger person than we have always supposed."

  THE END
