A Castle in the Air (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  IT seemed as if Master Meadow Mouse was always moving. Perhaps the  pleasantest move he ever made was when he went to the cornfield to live.  When autumn came Farmer Green shocked the corn. All over the field  bundles of cornstalks stood in rows, like soldiers. And what suited  Master Meadow Mouse especially was the ripe ears in the shocks, which  Farmer Green had not yet gathered.

For some weeks past Master Meadow Mouse had been living in a rude  shelter, which he had built for himself near the fence between the  pasture and the meadow. Though he had been quite comfortable there  during the hot weather, there were days, now, when a chilly wind swept  through Pleasant Valley and made him shiver slightly as he thought of  the frosts which his neighbors told him were on the way.

He had made up his mind to seek some snugger home. But not until he saw  what Farmer Green was doing with the cornstalks did Master Meadow Mouse  decide on his new dwelling.

"What a fine idea of Farmer Green's!" he cried, when he first looked  upon the shocked corn. "I never dreamed that he had been raising corn to  make homes for our family." He changed his opinion of Farmer Green.  Master Meadow Mouse had been much upset when Farmer Green cut the grass  in the meadow at haying time. All the birds in the air could see him  whenever he crossed the bare field. Now, however, he forgot his  displeasure in the joy that Farmer Green's latest move gave him.

That night Master Meadow Mouse crept into the cornfield. The round,  yellow harvest moon shone down on the field, bathing the shocks of corn  in a flood of light and making the pumpkins that lay on every side look  almost as golden as they appeared under the midday sun.

Master Meadow Mouse was surprised to find that many of his cousins had  had the same happy thought about moving that had come to him. He met  dozens of the big Meadow Mouse family that night. And every one of them  was intent on picking out a shock of corn to live in.

Luckily there were shocks enough for all--and more. And no disputes  arose. Some wanted to settle near the fence. Some preferred to live in  the middle of the field. Many decided to make their new homes near Broad  Brook, so they could enjoy a swim now and then without having to travel  far to get to the water.

Master Meadow Mouse was one of the best swimmers. He found a huge shock  that stood near the bank of the brook. Crawling through it, he  discovered at least two dozen ears of ripe corn there.

"I won't look any further," he exclaimed. "Here's food enough to last  for months, all stored for me and ready to be eaten whenever I'm  hungry."

Then he set to work. And high in the top of the shock he made himself a  nest of dry husks, which he stripped off some of the ears.

It was an easy matter to build that home. Everything that he needed was  right at hand. And it was no time at all before Master Meadow Mouse had  his house in order. Then he was ready for a nap. But first he made a  hearty meal of corn because--as he said--he always slept better on a  full stomach.

As he settled himself at last in his new quarters, just before he dozed  off Master Meadow Mouse murmured happily to himself.

"I never thought," he said, "that I'd sleep in a castle in the air."

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
