A CALL ON A NEIGHBOR (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  DADDY LONGLEGS was delighted to be at home again. And Mr. Chippy--as  well as other neighbors--remarked that they had never seen him so happy  and cheerful.

Perhaps one reason for Daddy's good spirits was the fact that the wind  no longer blew and he could venture abroad without being buffeted about.

He was so relieved by the change in the weather that it seemed to him  there could be no danger anywhere.

Little did Daddy Longlegs dream that a great army was even then making  plans to capture him. And still less did he imagine that he was going  to meet with a real adventure before the day was done.

Daddy Longlegs had so many pleasant ideas in his head that there was no  room in it for any thought of danger. He had found that his neighbors  considered him a hero, because he had ridden in Farmer Green's wagon. A  good many of Daddy's friends rushed at once to the stone wall, to talk  with him--as soon as they heard the news. And naturally he began to feel  quite important.

"Weren't you frightened?" people asked him. "Weren't you afraid that the  horse would run away?"

"Oh, no! I wasn't the least bit scared, though I admit it was a  dangerous feat," Daddy Longlegs told them. Then he would strut and  swagger about, trying to appear as if there wasn't a braver person than  he in all Pleasant Valley. And he talked about his wild ride to  everybody that would listen to him.

At first Daddy's friends enjoyed hearing about his adventure. But he  boasted so much about his bravery that his listeners soon grew tired of  hearing him talk. And instead of his having many callers, it was not  long before Daddy Longlegs found that nobody came near him, even to say  howdy-do.

He endured his loneliness as long as he could, though he found it hard  not to talk when he had so much to say. And feeling, at last, that he  was in danger of choking over the babble that surged up from within him,  Daddy Longlegs decided that he would go and call on Rusty Wren, who  lived in the cherry tree near Farmer Green's bedroom window.

"Rusty will be glad to know of my ride in the wagon," Daddy thought.  "And besides, I'd like to hear about his cousin's party, which I missed  on account of the big wind." So off Daddy Longlegs started, the moment  the idea popped into his head. He was the least bit uneasy, perhaps, for  fear Rusty Wren might not be at home, in which case he would have nobody  to talk to except Rusty's wife. And everybody knew that she was a person  of uncertain temper.

But Daddy found Rusty perched on the tin roof of his house (his house  was made of a maple-syrup can). And the first thing that Daddy Longlegs  said to him was this: "Is your wife at home?"

That may seem a strange question. But Rusty Wren appeared to know what  his caller meant. Anyhow, Rusty said, "No!" in such a cheerful tone that  Daddy Longlegs knew they could have a good chat without being  disturbed.
