A CARELESS HELPER (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

Stopping often to listen, Benny Badger did not reach the GroundSquirrel's chamber half as quickly as he could have had he done nothingbut dig.

And when he thrust his nose into the underground bedroom he found nobodyat home. The Ground Squirrel had fled, leaving his nest so warm thatBenny Badger knew he could not have been gone long.

Benny turned away. But he was not so disappointed as he might have been,for he remembered that Mr. Coyote was watching the back door. Andcertainly no Ground Squirrel could escape his sharp eyes.

Hurrying as fast as his short legs would carry him, Benny joined Mr.Coyote, who still sat comfortably on his haunches.

To Benny's surprise, his helper's eyes were closed, instead of beingfixed on the Ground Squirrel's back door.

"Have you seen anything of the Ground Squirrel?" Benny demandedanxiously.

Mr. Coyote started, and opened his eyes.

"Somebody came out a few moments ago," he replied. "But he disappearedin no time."

"That's too bad!" Benny Badger wailed. "He got away!"

"Are you sure?" Mr. Coyote inquired.

"Why, yes!" Benny cried. "It's as plain as the nose on your face."

"I won't dispute you," said Mr. Coyote.

"You'd better not!" Benny Badger snapped. "You have been very careless.I don't believe you watched carefully enough. When I came up just nowyou had your eyes shut."

"I won't dispute you," said Mr. Coyote again. He was most polite--sopolite, in fact, that Benny Badger was ashamed to appear rude orquarrelsome.

But Benny couldn't help being disappointed over losing the GroundSquirrel. And when, after he had dug to the end of three more tunnelsthat night, the same accident happened three times more, he decided thatsomething would have to be done. It was clear that Mr. Coyote's eyeswere not sharp enough. He was not nearly so helpful as Benny hadexpected him to be. "We'll have to change about," Benny announced atlast. "You must dig, while I watch."

But Mr. Coyote promptly made a number of objections to that plan. Hesaid, with something quite like a sneer, that he had much sharper eyesthan any member of the Badger family that ever lived, and that he wasquicker than a hundred Badgers put together. And as if he hadn't givenreasons enough for disagreeing with Benny, he declared that he simplycouldn't do any digging that night because he had a sore paw.

To prove his statement, Mr. Coyote held up one of his paws for Benny tosee.

Benny looked at it. He couldn't discover that it was any different fromMr. Coyote's three remaining paws. And he had just started to say so,too, when Mr. Coyote interrupted him with an enormous yawn.

"I'm getting sleepy," Mr. Coyote remarked. "It will be daylight beforewe know it. And I'm going home to take a nap."

So saying, he sprang up and stretched himself. And then he trotted off.But he stopped before he had gone far and looked back at Benny Badger.

"I'll be on hand to help you again after sunset," he said.
