A CHANGE IN THE WEATHER (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Well, the day was not half gone before all the wild creatures in  Pleasant Valley had heard all about Kiddie Katydid and his fiddling. At  least twenty-seven people came to Mr. Frog at different times and told  him the news. And he was furious.

"Old Mr. Crow has deceived me!" he complained. "I found out this secret  myself. And now that black rascal's taking all the credit for it."

"Mr. Crow has suggested that Kiddie Katydid be invited to join the  Pleasant Valley orchestra," Long Bill Wren informed Mr. Frog. "They have  no fiddlers, you know. And Kiddie will be a great help to them. Mr.  Crow has appointed a committee to call on Kiddie to-night and ask him to  come to the next concert."

That was the last straw, so far as Mr. Frog was concerned.

"Mr. Crow might at least have put me on the committee," he spluttered.  "But he has left me out in the cold."

"Why, it's not cold to-day!" Long Bill exclaimed. "Quite warm--I call  it!"

"It'll be good and cold by night," said Mr. Frog. "I look for a sudden  change in the weather. Nobody ought to venture out to-night without his  heaviest overcoat on."

After flinging that remark over his shoulder, Mr. Frog flung himself  inside his tailor's shop and slammed the door behind him. And then,  sitting down cross-legged upon his table, he began to think, wrinkling  his low brow until you might have supposed he would need to smooth it  out again with one of his flat-irons.

At last the tailor suddenly quit thinking and smiled very widely from  ear to ear. And carefully selecting some soft, warm, green cloth he  began to fashion a small garment, which was tiny enough to fit--well, to  fit a person as little as Kiddie Katydid.

Being a spry worker, Mr. Frog finished his task by nightfall. And then,  taking his handiwork with him, he left his shop--after locking the door  behind him--and hid himself beneath a shelving rock on the bank of the  creek.

He was in a very happy mood; for his ideas about the weather had proved  to be good. It was already turning cold.

"If it wasn't midsummer I should think we were going to have a frost!"  Mr. Frog exclaimed, buttoning the long coat which he had donned before  going out of doors. "I wish they'd hurry up!" he added mysteriously. He  kept a close watch upon his shop door. It was evident that he expected  callers.

Not long afterward a crowd began to gather in front of Mr. Frog's door.  "Back Soon" said the sign upon it. And the thinly clad, shivering knot  of field folk sat themselves down unhappily and waited for the tailor to  appear. Every one of them wanted a warm new overcoat, for each expected  to be out late that night.

Meanwhile Mr. Frog watched them--and giggled as loud as he dared. It was  Mr. Crow's committee that thronged about his door--the people who were  expecting to call upon Kiddie Katydid that very night to invite him to  join the Pleasant Valley orchestra.

[Illustration: Kiddie Took His New Coat From the Twig

(_Page 59_)]
