A CREAMY FACE (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  FARMER GREEN'S wife threw away pan after pan of milk, because she knew  somebody had been stealing cream off the top of them. At least, she told  Farmer Green to feed the milk to the pigs, because she wasn't going to  make butter of any cream that had been tampered with by goodness knew  whom or what. And old dog Spot said that feeding good creamy milk to the  pigs was just the same as throwing it away. He made that remark to Miss  Kitty Cat, adding that it was a shame that somebody was stealing cream  and declaring that he hoped to catch the thief.

Miss Kitty Cat made no reply whatsoever.

"Don't you hope I'll catch the guilty party?" Spot asked her.

"Please don't speak to me!" Miss Kitty Cat exclaimed impatiently. "I  don't enjoy your talk; and you may as well know it."

"Very well!" said Spot. "But when I catch him I'll let you know."

"She's jealous," Spot thought. "She knows I'm a good watch dog. And she  can't bear the idea of my catching a thief."

It was hard, usually, to tell how Miss Kitty Cat felt about anything.  She was a great one for keeping her opinions to herself. It seemed as if  she wanted to be let alone by every one except Farmer Green's family.

Having boasted about catching the cream thief, old dog Spot began to  watch the buttery very carefully. Search as he would, he couldn't find a  chink anywhere that was big enough even for a mouse to squeeze through.

One day he happened to catch a glimpse of something moving under the  roof of the shed next the buttery. To his amazement he saw Miss Kitty  Cat slip through an old stove-pipe hole that pierced the great chimney  which led down into the buttery, where there was an ancient fireplace  which hadn't been used for years and years. Miss Kitty Cat crept along a  tiebeam and hid herself in a pile of odds and ends that somebody had  stowed high up under the roof and left there to gather dust and  cob-webs.

"Ah, ha!" said Spot under his breath. "This is interesting."

When Miss Kitty Cat visited the kitchen a little later there wasn't a  speck of dirt on her coat. And her face was spotless. No one would have  guessed that she had ever made her way through an old chimney.

Old dog Spot said nothing to her then. But he chuckled to himself. He  had a plan that pleased him hugely.

All this happened on a morning. And late that afternoon when Miss Kitty  Cat wasn't anywhere to be seen, and Farmer Green's wife opened the  buttery door to get a pitcher of cream for supper, Spot suddenly began  to bark in the shed. He scrambled up a stepladder that leaned against  the wall and stood on the top of it while he pawed the air frantically,  as if he were trying to fly.

The noise brought Mrs. Green hurriedly out of the buttery. And she was  just in time to see Miss Kitty Cat peer out of the old stove-pipe hole,  with a _creamy_ look about her mouth.

Well, the cat was out of the bag at last. Or perhaps it would be more  exact to say that Miss Kitty was out of the buttery. Anyhow, it was very  plain to Mrs. Green that she had been in the buttery only a moment  before, lapping thick cream off a pan of milk. And she hadn't had time  to wash her face.

After that Farmer Green stopped up the stove-pipe hole. And soon Miss  Kitty's appetite for milk returned. When Mrs. Green set out her saucer  of milk for her Miss Kitty lapped it up greedily--and even licked the  saucer clean.

Old dog Spot watched her with a grin.

"I let you know when I caught the cream thief, just as I promised you I  would," he jeered.

Miss Kitty wiped her face very carefully before replying.

"Don't boast!" she said. "It's a disagreeable thing to do.... Besides,  _I_ knew--_long before you did_--who was taking Mrs. Green's cream."
