A daughter of eve (Fiction Ages 5 to 10)

"I hate the thought of growing up," said the Story Girl reflectively,  "because I can never go barefooted then, and nobody will ever see what  beautiful feet I have."

She was sitting, the July sunlight, on the ledge of the open hayloft  window in Uncle Roger's big barn; and the bare feet below her print  skirt WERE beautiful. They were slender and shapely and satin smooth  with arched insteps, the daintiest of toes, and nails like pink shells.

We were all in the hayloft. The Story Girl had been telling us a tale



"Of old, unhappy, far-off things,

  And battles long ago."

Felicity and Cecily were curled up in a corner, and we boys sprawled  idly on the fragrant, sun-warm heaps. We had "stowed" the hay in the  loft that morning for Uncle Roger, so we felt that we had earned the  right to loll on our sweet-smelling couch. Haylofts are delicious  places, with just enough of shadow and soft, uncertain noises to give  an agreeable tang of mystery. The swallows flew in and out of their nest  above our heads, and whenever a sunbeam fell through a chink the air  swarmed with golden dust. Outside of the loft was a vast, sunshiny gulf  of blue sky and mellow air, wherein floated argosies of fluffy cloud,  and airy tops of maple and spruce.

Pat was with us, of course, prowling about stealthily, or making  frantic, bootless leaps at the swallows. A cat in a hayloft is a  beautiful example of the eternal fitness of things. We had not heard of  this fitness then, but we all felt that Paddy was in his own place in a  hayloft.

"I think it is very vain to talk about anything you have yourself being  beautiful," said Felicity.

"I am not a bit vain," said the Story Girl, with entire truthfulness.  "It is not vanity to know your own good points. It would just be  stupidity if you didn't. It's only vanity when you get puffed up about  them. I am not a bit pretty. My only good points are my hair and eyes  and feet. So I think it's real mean that one of them has to be covered  up the most of the time. I'm always glad when it gets warm enough to go  barefooted. But, when I grow up they'll have to covered all the time. It  IS mean."

"You'll have to put your shoes and stockings on when you go to the magic  lantern show to-night," said Felicity in a tone of satisfaction.

"I don't know that. I'm thinking of going barefooted."

"Oh, you wouldn't! Sara Stanley, you're not in earnest!" exclaimed  Felicity, her blue eyes filling with horror.

The Story Girl winked with the side of her face next to Felix and me,  but the side next the girls changed not a muscle. She dearly loved to  "take a rise" out of Felicity now and then.

"Indeed, I would if I just made up my mind to. Why not? Why not bare  feet--if they're clean--as well as bare hands and face?"

"Oh, you wouldn't! It would be such a disgrace!" said poor Felicity in  real distress.

"We went to school barefooted all June," argued that wicked Story Girl.  "What is the difference between going to the schoolhouse barefooted in  the daytime and going in the evening?"

"Oh, there's EVERY difference. I can't just explain it--but every one  KNOWS there is a difference. You know it yourself. Oh, PLEASE, don't do  such a thing, Sara."

"Well, I won't, just to oblige you," said the Story Girl, who would  have died the death before she would have gone to a "public meeting"  barefooted.

We were all rather excited over the magic lantern show which an  itinerant lecturer was to give in the schoolhouse that evening. Even  Felix and I, who had seen such shows galore, were interested, and the  rest were quite wild. There had never been such a thing in Carlisle  before. We were all going, Peter included. Peter went everywhere with us  now. He was a regular attendant at church and Sunday School, where his  behaviour was as irreproachable as if he had been "raised" in the caste  of Vere de Vere. It was a feather in the Story Girl's cap, for she took  all the credit of having started Peter on the right road. Felicity was  resigned, although the fatal patch on Peter's best trousers was still  an eyesore to her. She declared she never got any good of the singing,  because Peter stood up then and every one could see the patch. Mrs.  James Clark, whose pew was behind ours, never took her eye off it--or so  Felicity averred.

But Peter's stockings were always darned. Aunt Olivia had seen to that,  ever since she heard of Peter's singular device regarding them on his  first Sunday. She had also given Peter a Bible, of which he was so proud  that he hated to use it lest he should soil it.

"I think I'll wrap it up and keep it in my box," he said. "I've an old  Bible of Aunt Jane's at home that I can use. I s'pose it's just the  same, even if it is old, isn't it?"

"Oh, yes," Cecily had assured him. "The Bible is always the same."

"I thought maybe they'd got some new improvements on it since Aunt  Jane's day," said Peter, relieved.

"Sara Ray is coming along the lane, and she's crying," announced Dan,  who was peering out of a knot-hole on the opposite side of the loft.

"Sara Ray is crying half her time," said Cecily impatiently. "I'm sure  she cries a quartful of tears a month. There are times when you can't  help crying. But I hide then. Sara just goes and cries in public."

The lachrymose Sara presently joined us and we discovered the cause of  her tears to be the doleful fact that her mother had forbidden her to  go to the magic lantern show that night. We all showed the sympathy we  felt.

"She SAID yesterday you could go," said the Story Girl indignantly. "Why  has she changed her mind?"

"Because of the measles in Markdale," sobbed Sara. "She says Markdale is  full of them, and there'll be sure to be some of the Markdale people at  the show. So I'm not to go. And I've never seen a magic lantern--I've  never seen ANYTHING."

"I don't believe there's any danger of catching measles," said Felicity.  "If there was we wouldn't be allowed to go."

"I wish I COULD get the measles," said Sara defiantly. "Maybe I'd be of  some importance to ma then."

"Suppose Cecily goes down with you and coaxes your mother," suggested  the Story Girl. "Perhaps she'd let you go then. She likes Cecily. She  doesn't like either Felicity or me, so it would only make matters worse  for us to try."

"Ma's gone to town--pa and her went this afternoon--and they're not  coming back till to-morrow. There's nobody home but Judy Pineau and me."

"Then," said the Story Girl, "why don't you just go to the show anyhow?  Your mother won't ever know, if you coax Judy to hold her tongue."

"Oh, but that's wrong," said Felicity. "You shouldn't put Sara up to  disobeying her mother."

Now, Felicity for once was undoubtedly right. The Story Girl's  suggestion WAS wrong; and if it had been Cecily who protested, the Story  Girl would probably have listened to her, and proceeded no further  in the matter. But Felicity was one of those unfortunate people whose  protests against wrong-doing serve only to drive the wrong-doer further  on her sinful way.

The Story Girl resented Felicity's superior tone, and proceeded to tempt  Sara in right good earnest. The rest of us held our tongues. It was, we  told ourselves, Sara's own lookout.

"I have a good mind to do it," said Sara, "but I can't get my good  clothes; they're in the spare room, and ma locked the door, for fear  somebody would get at the fruit cake. I haven't a single thing to wear,  except my school gingham."

"Well, that's new and pretty," said the Story Girl. "We'll lend you  some things. You can have my lace collar. That'll make the gingham quite  elegant. And Cecily will lend you her second best hat."

"But I've no shoes or stockings. They're locked up too."

"You can have a pair of mine," said Felicity, who probably thought that  since Sara was certain to yield to temptation, she might as well be  garbed decently for her transgression.

Sara did yield. When the Story Girl's voice entreated it was not easy  to resist its temptation, even if you wanted to. That evening, when  we started for the schoolhouse, Sara Ray was among us, decked out in  borrowed plumes.

"Suppose she DOES catch the measles?" Felicity said aside.

"I don't believe there'll be anybody there from Markdale. The lecturer  is going to Markdale next week. They'll wait for that," said the Story  Girl airily.

It was a cool, dewy evening, and we walked down the long, red hill in  the highest of spirits. Over a valley filled with beech and spruce was  a sunset afterglow--creamy yellow and a hue that was not so much red as  the dream of red, with a young moon swung low in it. The air was sweet  with the breath of mown hayfields where swaths of clover had been  steeping in the sun. Wild roses grew pinkly along the fences, and the  roadsides were star-dusted with buttercups.

Those of us who had nothing the matter with our consciences enjoyed our  walk to the little whitewashed schoolhouse in the valley. Felicity  and Cecily were void of offence towards all men. The Story Girl walked  uprightly like an incarnate flame in her crimson silk. Her pretty feet  were hidden in the tan-coloured, buttoned Paris boots which were the  secret envy of every school girl in Carlisle.

But Sara Ray was not happy. Her face was so melancholy that the Story  Girl lost patience with her. The Story Girl herself was not altogether  at ease. Probably her own conscience was troubling her. But admit it she  would not.

"Now, Sara," she said, "you just take my advice and go into this with  all your heart if you go at all. Never mind if it is bad. There's no  use being naughty if you spoil your fun by wishing all the time you were  good. You can repent afterwards, but there is no use in mixing the two  things together."

"I'm not repenting," protested Sara. "I'm only scared of ma finding it  out."

"Oh!" The Story Girl's voice expressed her scorn. For remorse she  had understanding and sympathy; but fear of her fellow creatures was  something unknown to her. "Didn't Judy Pineau promise you solemnly she  wouldn't tell?"

"Yes; but maybe some one who sees me there will mention it to ma."

"Well, if you're so scared you'd better not go. It isn't too late.  Here's your own gate," said Cecily.

But Sara could not give up the delights of the show. So she walked on,  a small, miserable testimony that the way of the transgressor is never  easy, even when said transgressor is only a damsel of eleven.

The magic lantern show was a splendid one. The views were good and the  lecturer witty. We repeated his jokes to each other all the way home.  Sara, who had not enjoyed the exhibition at all, seemed to feel more  cheerful when it was over and she was going home. The Story Girl on the  contrary was gloomy.

"There WERE Markdale people there," she confided to me, "and the  Williamsons live next door to the Cowans, who have measles. I wish I'd  never egged Sara on to going--but don't tell Felicity I said so. If Sara  Ray had really enjoyed the show I wouldn't mind. But she didn't. I could  see that. So I've done wrong and made her do wrong--and there's nothing  to show for it."

The night was scented and mysterious. The wind was playing an eerie  fleshless melody in the reeds of the brook hollow. The sky was dark and  starry, and across it the Milky Way flung its shimmering misty ribbons.

"There's four hundred million stars in the Milky Way," quoth Peter, who  frequently astonished us by knowing more than any hired boy could be  expected to. He had a retentive memory, and never forgot anything he  heard or read. The few books left to him by his oft-referred-to Aunt  Jane had stocked his mind with a miscellaneous information which  sometimes made Felix and me doubt if we knew as much as Peter after all.  Felicity was so impressed by his knowledge of astronomy that she dropped  back from the other girls and walked beside him. She had not done so  before because he was barefooted. It was permissible for hired boys to  go to public meetings--when not held in the church--with bare feet, and  no particular disgrace attached to it. But Felicity would not walk with  a barefooted companion. It was dark now, so nobody would notice his  feet.

"I know a story about the Milky Way," said the Story Girl, brightening  up. "I read it in a book of Aunt Louisa's in town, and I learned it  off by heart. Once there were two archangels in heaven, named Zerah and  Zulamith--"

"Have angels names--same as people?" interrupted Peter.

"Yes, of course. They MUST have. They'd be all mixed up if they hadn't."

"And when I'm an angel--if I ever get to be one--will my name still be  Peter?"

"No. You'll have a new name up there," said Cecily gently. "It says so  in the Bible."

"Well, I'm glad of that. Peter would be such a funny name for an angel.  And what is the difference between angels and archangels?"

"Oh, archangels are angels that have been angels so long that they've  had time to grow better and brighter and more beautiful than newer  angels," said the Story Girl, who probably made that explanation up on  the spur of the moment, just to pacify Peter.

"How long does it take for an angel to grow into an archangel?" pursued  Peter.

"Oh, I don't know. Millions of years likely. And even then I don't  suppose ALL the angels do. A good many of them must just stay plain  angels, I expect."

"I shall be satisfied just to be a plain angel," said Felicity modestly.

"Oh, see here, if you're going to interrupt and argue over everything,  we'll never get the story told," said Felix. "Dry up, all of you, and  let the Story Girl go on."

We dried up, and the Story Girl went on.

"Zerah and Zulamith loved each other, just as mortals love, and this is  forbidden by the laws of the Almighty. And because Zerah and Zulamith  had so broken God's law they were banished from His presence to the  uttermost bounds of the universe. If they had been banished TOGETHER it  would have been no punishment; so Zerah was exiled to a star on one side  of the universe, and Zulamith was sent to a star on the other side of  the universe; and between them was a fathomless abyss which thought  itself could not cross. Only one thing could cross it--and that was  love. Zulamith yearned for Zerah with such fidelity and longing that  he began to build up a bridge of light from his star; and Zerah, not  knowing this, but loving and longing for him, began to build a similar  bridge of light from her star. For a thousand thousand years they both  built the bridge of light, and at last they met and sprang into each  other's arms. Their toil and loneliness and suffering were all over and  forgotten, and the bridge they had built spanned the gulf between their  stars of exile.

"Now, when the other archangels saw what had been done they flew in fear  and anger to God's white throne, and cried to Him,

"'See what these rebellious ones have done! They have built them a  bridge of light across the universe, and set Thy decree of separation at  naught. Do Thou, then, stretch forth Thine arm and destroy their impious  work.'

"They ceased--and all heaven was hushed. Through the silence sounded the  voice of the Almighty.

"'Nay,' He said, 'whatsoever in my universe true love hath builded not  even the Almighty can destroy. The bridge must stand forever.'

"And," concluded the Story Girl, her face upturned to the sky and her  big eyes filled with starlight, "it stands still. That bridge is the  Milky Way."

"What a lovely story," sighed Sara Ray, who had been wooed to a  temporary forgetfulness of her woes by its charm.

The rest of us came back to earth, feeling that we had been wandering  among the hosts of heaven. We were not old enough to appreciate fully  the wonderful meaning of the legend; but we felt its beauty and  its appeal. To us forevermore the Milky Way would be, not Peter's  overwhelming garland of suns, but the lucent bridge, love-created, on  which the banished archangels crossed from star to star.

We had to go up Sara Ray's lane with her to her very door, for she was  afraid Peg Bowen would catch her if she went alone. Then the Story Girl  and I walked up the hill together. Peter and Felicity lagged behind.  Cecily and Dan and Felix were walking before us, hand in hand, singing a  hymn. Cecily had a very sweet voice, and I listened in delight. But the  Story Girl sighed.

"What if Sara does take the measles?" she asked miserably.

"Everyone has to have the measles sometime," I said comfortingly, "and  the younger you are the better."
