A Fat Little Fellow (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  MASTER MEADOW MOUSE was pudgy. His legs were so short and his tail was  so short and his ears were so short that he looked even fatter than he  really was. And goodness knows he was plump enough--especially toward  fall when the corn was ripe.

He lived in Farmer Green's meadow. And he never harmed anybody. For  Master Meadow Mouse was fat and good-natured.

Friendly folk, such as Paddy Muskrat and Billy Woodchuck, liked him  because he was good-natured. They always smiled pleasantly when they  spoke of him. And unfriendly folk, such as Peter Mink and Tommy Fox,  liked him because he was fat. When they mentioned him they always  grinned horribly and licked their lips.

Now, it was a pity that in Pleasant Valley, where Farmer Green's meadow  lay, there were many of the fat-loving kind. Not only Peter Mink and  Tommy Fox, but Grumpy Weasel, Solomon Owl, Ferdinand Frog, Henry Hawk  and even Miss Kitty Cat were usually on the watch for Master Meadow  Mouse. Naturally, he soon learned to be on the lookout for them. And if  he hadn't seen them first he would never have grown up to be _Mister_  Meadow Mouse.

In spite of all those enemies, Master Meadow Mouse managed to enjoy life  in Farmer Green's meadow. Usually he found plenty of seeds to eat. He  liked to swim in Broad Brook. And in winter, when the snow was deep, he  made tunnels beneath it, and a nest, too, which was snug and warm under  the thick white blanket that covered it.

The only time Master Meadow Mouse was ever known to lose his temper was  when Farmer Green mowed the meadow. Under the high grass Master Meadow  Mouse had been able to run about his well-beaten paths unseen by hawks.  But with the grass cut and raked, leaving only naked stubble, he  couldn't hide even from old Mr. Crow. It was no wonder that he agreed  with Bobby Bobolink's wife. The Bobolink family were so upset by haying  that they moved to Cedar Swamp at the very first clatter of the mowing  machine. And when Master Meadow Mouse bade them good-by Mrs. Bobolink  said to him, "What a shame that Farmer Green should break up a happy  home like ours!" And Master Meadow Mouse remarked that it was very  careless of Farmer Green. "He might have waited till the snow comes, at  least, before cutting the grass," said Master Meadow Mouse.

"You'd better move to Cedar Swamp with us," Mrs. Bobolink suggested.  "It's a fine place. I know, for we lived there last fall."

But Master Meadow Mouse didn't want to move.

"The grass will grow again," he explained. "Farmer Green can't stop the  grass from growing, no matter how often he cuts it." And of course that  was quite true.

After haying Master Meadow Mouse had to be more careful than ever. He  knew that the hawks would scan the meadow many times a day in hopes of  catching a glimpse of his reddish-brown back.

Luckily he succeeded in dodging them. And he dodged a good many other  fierce rascals long after winter with its snow had descended on Pleasant  Valley. Yet he never complained. He said that danger kept the days--and  nights too--from being dull.

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
