A FEAST AT LAST (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  To Dickie Deer Mouse, waiting impatiently for Mr. Pine Finch to drop  another bud out of the tree-top, it began to seem as if his good luck  were short lived. Could it be possible that Mr. Pine Finch was so  careful that he lost a bud only once in a long time--perhaps only once a  year?

But as Dickie Deer Mouse wondered, a small shower of buds came rattling  down upon the snow-crust. And Dickie Deer Mouse snatched them up, every  one, and ate them hungrily.

In a little while he felt so much better that he called out to Mr. Pine  Finch:

"Shake a lot of 'em down--there's a good fellow!"

Mr. Pine Finch fluttered to a perch on a limb and looked down in great  surprise.

"Did you speak?" he inquired.

"Yes!" Dickie Deer Mouse piped up. "You know, I can climb a tree; but I  can't crawl out to the tips of the branches, because I'm too heavy. So  you'll oblige me if you'll drop a few dozen more of those buds."

The request surprised Mr. Pine Finch. His face told that much.

"_Buds!_" he exclaimed. "Why do you want _buds_?"

"I eat them--when I can get them," Dickie Deer Mouse informed him.

The streaked gentleman in the tree looked quite blank.

"What a strange thing to do!" he cried through his nose--or so it  seemed.

"Strange!" Dickie Deer Mouse echoed. "Why, you've just been eating some  yourself!" And he couldn't help thinking that Mr. Pine Finch was even  odder than he sounded.

"That's so," Mr. Pine Finch admitted. "In fact, I may say that I'm very,  very fond of tree-buds. But I'm a bird. And of course everybody knows  that you're a rodent."

"I'm hungry, anyway," Dickie Deer Mouse retorted. He didn't mind Mr.  Finch's calling him names, if only he would drop some more buds.

"You're hungry, eh?" the odd gentleman in the tree replied. "That  reminds me that I'm still hungry myself. So I can't stop to talk with  you any longer just now."

Then he turned himself upside down, as he picked out a promising  cluster of buds. And before he had finished his breakfast he had dropped  so many buds that Dickie Deer Mouse called to him and thanked him for  his kindness.

"What! Are you still there?" Mr. Pine Finch exclaimed, gazing down at  Dickie as if he were greatly surprised to see him lingering beneath the  tree. "I must go away now," Mr. Pine Finch added. "But I'll make this  remark before I leave: If you have anything more to say to me, you can  find me here almost any morning soon after daybreak." And then he flew  off.

Dickie Deer Mouse told himself that he was in luck. By coming to that  spot early every day he could pick up buds enough--dropped carelessly by  Mr. Pine Finch--to feed himself until spring came and the snow melted  and uncovered the ground, where he knew he could find food.

So he went home and slept as he had not slept for weeks. And the next  morning, when he went back to the tree where he had found Mr. Pine  Finch, his eighteen cousins followed him. For Dickie Deer Mouse told  them of his good fortune and asked them to share it with him.

As for Mr. Pine Finch, he looked queerer than ever when he saw that  Dickie had brought eighteen of his relations with him. However, he bade  them all good morning. And he seemed to be even clumsier than he had  been the day before. He dropped an enormous number of buds; so many, in  fact, that Dickie Deer Mouse wondered how Mr. Pine Finch managed to get  enough breakfast for himself.

Perhaps that odd gentleman knew what he was about. To tell the truth,  he had noticed the day before that Dickie Deer Mouse looked thin and  hungry. His coat, too, struck Mr. Pine Finch as being somewhat shabby.  But he said nothing to show Dickie Deer Mouse that he knew there was  anything wrong. And if he dropped tree-buds on purpose, he never let  anyone know it.

Anyhow, Mr. Pine Finch did not fail to appear at that tree a single  morning during the rest of the winter. Before spring came the Deer Mouse  family had long since decided that he was the best friend they had in  all Pleasant Valley. And they all agreed that his voice, although he did  talk through his nose, was the pleasantest they had ever heard.

At last the breakfast parties beneath Mr. Pine Finch's favorite tree  came to an end. The snow vanished. Warm weather made the underground  chamber in Farmer Green's pasture seem crowded and stuffy. And Dickie  Deer Mouse said farewell to his eighteen cousins, because he wanted to  look for a pleasant place in which to spend the summer.

THE END

[Illustration]
