A FINE PLAN (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Chirpy Cricket was one of Freddie Firefly's neighbors. He was a good  neighbor for anybody to have, too, because he was one of the most  cheerful of all the field and forest-folk that lived in Pleasant Valley.  Freddie Firefly liked him. And he often remarked that he would rather  hear Chirpy Cricket sing than sing himself.

Since he was so fond of hearing Chirpy's songs, it was lucky for Freddie  that his sprightly neighbor usually chose to sing at night, when Freddie  could better enjoy his shrill ditty. And Freddie frequently went out of  his way on a fine, dark, summer's night to find Chirpy Cricket and thank  him for his kindness.

At such times Chirpy Cricket always smiled mysteriously, saying "I'm  glad my voice pleases you." But it must be confessed that he was not  singing for Freddie Firefly's benefit at all. He was singing for his own  entertainment--and maybe to please some lady of his acquaintance as  well. And he chose night time for his chirping because he didn't dare  sing during the day. He knew that after sunset almost all the birds were  asleep--except for Solomon Owl and Willie Whip-poor-will and a few other  feathered folk who preferred the dark to the daylight. They were not so  numerous that they worried Chirpy very much. But between dawn and sunset  there were altogether too many birds awake to please him. Then Chirpy  Cricket kept quite silent. He didn't wish to draw attention to himself  by singing, because he didn't care to be gobbled up by any bird, no  matter how handsome or hungry the bird might be.

Perhaps it is a wonder that Chirpy could be so cheerful as he was,  living under such difficulties as he did. But on the other hand, maybe  he felt so carefree at night that he couldn't help being jolly.

Anyhow, he was always ready for a good time. And if there was no good  time at hand, usually Chirpy Cricket could think of some sort of frolic.

And so, at last, he hit upon the idea of a torchlight procession.  Somebody had told him that Farmer Green's family had seen such a parade  in the village one evening. And Chirpy Cricket saw no reason why he and  his friends should not enjoy one too, right there in the shadow of Blue  Mountain.

"What they can do in the village, we can do here!" he exclaimed. And  though it was still broad daylight--being not later than the middle of  the afternoon--Chirpy set out at once to find Freddie Firefly, because  he simply had to get Freddie to help him.

He found Freddie in the swampy part of the meadow, near the place where  the cat-tails grew. And though Freddie was a bit sleepy, he became wide  awake the moment he heard Chirpy Cricket's voice.

"I've thought of a fine plan!" Chirpy Cricket cried. "I'm going to have  a torchlight procession and I want you and all your family to take part  in it."
