A GAME BIRD (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Mr. Grouse moved back and forth upon his log in the clearing in the  woods. And casting a withering glance at Turkey Proudfoot, he said,  "It's plain that you don't know what a game bird is. Men--and boys,  too--come into the woods with guns to hunt us. And we make game of them  by rising swiftly with a loud _whir_ and flying off before they have  time to shoot us."

Turkey Proudfoot gaped at Mr. Grouse.

"Don't they ever hit you?" he faltered.

"They've never shot me," said Mr. Grouse. "Once a hunter knocked out  one of my tail feathers. But that was only an accident."

[Illustration: Turkey Proudfoot Has a Chat with Mr. Grouse. (_Page_ 80)]

"I shouldn't care to be a game bird," Turkey Proudfoot remarked. "I'm  sure it's much safer living at the farmyard."

Mr. Grouse gave him an odd look. One winter when food was scarce in the  woods he had flown down to the farmyard. And he remembered seeing turkey  feathers scattered about the chopping block near the woodpile.

"How do you usually spend the holidays?" he asked.

"Last Fourth of July I went up in the haymow and kept out of sight all  day," said Turkey Proudfoot. "I don't like firecrackers."

Mr. Grouse nodded his head.

"I don't blame you for that," he observed. "Firecrackers sound too much  like guns.... But I wasn't thinking of the Fourth of July," he went on.  "When I asked how you spent the holidays I was thinking more of those to  come. Now, Thanksgiving Day isn't a long way off. Have you made any  plans for that?"

When he mentioned Thanksgiving Day Turkey Proudfoot gave a sudden start.

"For goodness' sake, don't speak of that now!" he cried. "I came to the  woods to enjoy myself. And now you're trying to spoil my good time."

Mr. Grouse could see that Turkey Proudfoot was angry. And being rather  peppery himself, he was tempted to say something sharp--something about  _axes_, which are always sharp unless they're dull. But Mr. Grouse  managed to control his temper. After all, he thought, it was no wonder  that Turkey Proudfoot didn't want to hear about Thanksgiving Day.

"Pardon me!" said Mr. Grouse. "I only brought up this matter in a  cousinly kind of way."

"Cousinly!" cried Turkey Proudfoot. "You and I, sir, are total strangers  to each other."

"Well, we ought not to be," said Mr. Grouse. "It's time we got  acquainted with each other. Didn't you know that your family and mine  are related?"

"No!" Turkey Proudfoot exclaimed. "No! I never knew it."

"It's the truth," Mr. Grouse told him. "Don't you think we look a bit  alike, except that my neck is somewhat short, and yours is long and  skinny? And of course my head is feathered out, while yours is bald and  red."

"That will do!" Turkey Proudfoot gobbled angrily. "Even if you are my  cousin you needn't make such remarks about me."

Mr. Grouse begged his pardon again.

"I was only pointing out the differences between us," he explained. "But  if they displease you, I'll speak of the ways in which we are alike.  Now, take our tails--"

"I won't!" Turkey Proudfoot squalled. "I'll take my own tail wherever I  go. But I won't take yours."
