A GOOD SLEEPER (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Twinkleheels' stall was an end one. Next to him stood the old horse  Ebenezer; and beyond Ebenezer were the two bays. Twinkleheels often  wished that he might have someone for his nearest neighbor that was a  bit livelier than Ebenezer. When the old horse stayed in the barn he  spent a great deal of his time with his eyes half shut, dozing. If  Twinkleheels spoke to him, Ebenezer seldom heard him the first time. And  often Ebenezer even fell asleep while Twinkleheels was talking to him.

Twinkleheels always moved smartly. Ebenezer took his time about  everything. When anybody backed him between the thills of a wagon he was  as slow as Timothy Turtle and no more graceful. And while people  harnessed him he usually sighed heavily now and then, because he dreaded  being hurried along the road.

Before Twinkleheels came to the farm to live, Johnnie Green had thought  it quite a lark to drive or ride Ebenezer. Now, however, Johnnie paid  little heed to the old horse. And, to tell the truth, Ebenezer was  content to be let alone.

"This boy must have found it a bit poky, riding you," Twinkleheels  remarked to Ebenezer one day when he noticed that the old horse was  actually wide-awake.

"He found me safe," Ebenezer replied. "That's why Farmer Green let  Johnnie ride me."

"It's a wonder you didn't fall asleep and tumble down and throw  Johnnie," Twinkleheels said.

"I'm very sure-footed," Ebenezer told him proudly. "Of course, a person  will step on a loose stone now and then. But I've never really stumbled  in my whole life."

"How old are you?" Twinkleheels inquired.

"I'm twenty," Ebenezer told him.

"And you've never stumbled in all that time!" Twinkleheels cried. "How  did you manage to stay on your feet like that?"

"By minding my business," Ebenezer explained with a shrewd glance at his  young companion. The answer--and the look--were both lost on  Twinkleheels.

"I heard Farmer Green tell Johnnie to turn me and you into the pasture  to-morrow," he told Ebenezer.

"Don't you mean 'you and me'?" Ebenezer suggested mildly.

"Well, it's the same thing, isn't it?" Twinkleheels retorted.

"There's a slight difference," said Ebenezer. "I see there are some  things you've never been taught. Colts were different when I was a  yearling."

Twinkleheels looked almost angry.

"I hope," he snapped, "you don't take me for a yearling. Just because  I'm a pony--and small--you needn't think I'm an infant. Why, I'm five  years old!"

Old Ebenezer yawned. It seemed as if he was always sleepy.

"You've a good deal to learn," he said. "When I was five I thought I  knew everything.... I still find that I can learn something almost every  day."

Twinkleheels sniffed. "I don't believe you've picked up much that was  new to-day," he said. "You've been dozing every moment, except when you  ate your meals."

To his great disgust, Ebenezer gave a sort of snort. He no longer heard  anything that his youthful neighbor said.

"I'll see that he learns something in the pasture to-morrow,"  Twinkleheels promised himself. "I'll get him to race with me--if he can  stay awake long enough. And I'll show him such a burst of speed as he's  never seen in all his twenty years."
