A GREAT DIGGER (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

Of course, Benny Badger had the best of reasons for living on the high,dry plains. There he had for neighbors plenty of ground squirrels andprairie dogs. And it is likely that he enjoyed their company much morethan they did his.

If anyone had asked them, those little wild people would no doubt haveconfessed that they wished Benny Badger was somewhere else. But theirwishes meant nothing to Benny--if he knew anything of them. Although hecouldn't help noticing that his small neighbors hurried into their homeswhenever they caught sight of him, Benny never took the hint and wentaway. On the contrary, when he spied a prairie dog or a ground squirreldisappearing into his burrow Benny was more than ready to go right inafter him.

Now, the tunnels that led to the houses of those smaller folk were toosmall to admit anybody as bulky as Benny Badger. But that difficultynever hindered Benny. Digging was the easiest thing he did. He had apowerful body, short, stout legs, and big feet, which bore long, strongclaws. And when he started to dig his way into somebody else's home hecertainly did make the dirt fly.

He was so fond of digging that he even dug countless holes of his own,just for the fun it gave him--so far as anybody could find out. And ifhe had only left other folk's holes alone some of his neighbors wouldnot have objected to his favorite sport. For more than one fox andcoyote had been known to make his home in a hole dug by Benny Badger.And, though they never took the trouble to thank him for saving themwork, they often chuckled about his odd way of having fun, and remarkedamong themselves that Benny must be a stupid fellow.

If they really thought that, they made a great mistake. To be sure, atanything except digging he was slow and awkward. He was too heavy andsquat to be spry on his feet--to chase and catch his more nimbleneighbors. But no one that knew much about Benny Badger would have saidthat his wits were dull. They were sharp. And so, too, were his teeth,which he never hesitated to use in a fight.

Left alone, Benny Badger--when he wasn't too hungry--was a peaceableperson. But if a dog ever tried to worry him Benny had a most unpleasantway of seizing his annoyer with his powerful jaws and holding the poorcreature as if he never intended to let him go.

Cornered, Benny knew no such thing as fear. He had the heart of a lion,and jaws like a steel trap. And no wise dog ever let Benny get a good,firm grip on him.

Usually no one saw Benny Badger except at night. He seldom left his denin the daytime except to sun himself. And even then not many noticedhim. Though he did not hide when anyone surprised him while taking asun-bath, he had a trick of lying flat in the grass without moving. Andit took a sharp eye to spy him when he lay low in that fashion.

Curled up asleep, with his long fur on end, he looked too comfortable todisturb. At least, that was what the ground squirrels thought. And ifone of those busy little fellows ever paused to stare curiously at Bennywhen he was having a nap in the warm sunshine, Benny Badger had only toawake and turn his head toward the onlooker to make him scamper for homeas fast as he could go.

It was not Benny's face, either, that frightened the ground squirrelsaway, though everybody had to admit that he had a queer one. A blackpatch spread over his eyes and ran like the point of a V down his nose.For the most part, however, he was of a grayish color, with still moreblack running in streaks across his back. Underneath he was a--yes! adirty white color. But then, one must remember that he was foreverdigging in the dirt; and there was very little water where he lived.Anyhow, he was particular enough about one thing: his long hair wasalways carefully parted in the middle from his head to his tail.

And certainly that ought to show that he tried to keep himself lookingneat.
