A GREAT FLURRY(Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  There was a great flurry among Farmer Green's hens. They all insisted on  talking at the same time, because they had heard an astonishing bit of  news. It was about Henrietta Hen. Wherever she went her neighbors craned  their necks at her, just as if they hadn't seen her every day for as long  as they could remember.

Henrietta Hen enjoyed the notice that everybody took of her. She went to  some trouble to move about a good deal, so that all might have a chance  to stare at her. For if there was one thing she liked, it was attention.

There was a reason why Henrietta had suddenly become the most talked-of  member of the flock. She was going to the county fair! Furthermore, she  expected to take all her children with her. There wasn't the least doubt  that it was all true. The whole flock had heard Johnnie Green and his  father talking about it.

Of course everybody asked Henrietta Hen a great number of questions. When  was she going to leave? How long did she expect to stay at the fair? What  did she intend to do there? Would she wear her best clothes if it rained?  There was no end to such inquiries.

Unfortunately, Henrietta Hen could answer very few of them. Never having  visited a fair, she had no idea what a fair was like. She only guessed  that when the time came, she and her family would be put into a pen,  loaded upon a wagon, and jolted over the road that led to the fair,  wherever it might be.

But Henrietta didn't intend to let her neighbors find out how little she  knew about fairs. She said that before starting she expected to wait for  the wagon, that she hoped to stay at the fair as long as it lasted  (because she didn't want to miss anything!) and that she intended to come  home when the wagon brought her. Furthermore, she planned to wear her  best apron, anyhow, because there was sure to be fair weather at a fair!  How could it be otherwise?

Old Ebenezer, the horse, told her to be sure to see the races.

"They're the best part of a fair," he said. "In my younger days I used to  take part in them." And then he added, "There's nothing else at a fair  that's worth looking at."

"What about the poultry show?" Henrietta Hen asked him. She didn't know  what poultry shows were; but she had heard Farmer Green mention them.

"I never paid any attention to the poultry exhibit," the horse Ebenezer  replied. "I never took part in that. I suppose it might interest you,  however."

Henrietta Hen smiled a knowing sort of smile. And she remarked to Polly  Plymouth Rock, who stood near her, that she didn't believe the old horse  knew a race from a poultry show. "If he ever went to a fair, I dare say  he was hitched outside the fence," she sniffed.

Polly Plymouth Rock cackled with amusement. And she said something that  displeased Henrietta Hen exceedingly.

"Are you going to take that duckling that you hatched out?" she asked.

"Certainly not!" Henrietta snapped. "Please--Miss Plymouth Rock--never  mention him again! I'm going to the fair, among strangers. And I  shouldn't care to have them know about that accident that happened to  me--not for anything!"
