A GREAT SECRET (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Whoever Katy was, and whatever she might have done, nobody in Pleasant  Valley knew anything about her except Kiddie Katydid and his numerous  and noisy family.

To be sure, many of the wild folk--and the people in the farmhouse,  too--remembered hearing her name mentioned the year before.

But they had quite forgotten about her, until August came and Kiddie  Katydid and his relations brought her to their minds once more.

Each night the Katydids' rasping chant was repeated again and again:  _Katy did, Katy did; she did, she did!_ But since in any crowd there are  always a few that want to be different from the rest, now and then some  member of Kiddie's clan insisted that Katy didn't--somewhat in this  fashion: _Katy did, Katy did; she did, she didn't!_

However, there were always so many others to drown any such puzzling  statement with their shrill clamor that Katy really _did_ do it  (whatever it was!) that nobody paid much attention to those few who  didn't quite agree.

On warm, dry, midsummer nights the Katydids all made a terrific racket.  But there wasn't one of them that outdid Kiddie. He always had the best  time when he was making the most noise. And since he liked to station  himself in a tree near Farmer Green's house, his uproar often rose  plainly above that of the other Katydids.

Lying in bed in his little room under the eaves, Johnnie Green sometimes  wished that Kiddie would keep quiet long enough to let him go to sleep  in peace.

To be sure, the balmy breezes wafted many other night sounds through  Johnnie's open window. From near-by came Chirpy Cricket's cheerful  piping. And in the distant swamp the musical Frog family held a singing  party every evening. Johnnie Green liked to hear them. But he objected  strongly to the weird hooting and horrid laughter of Solomon Owl, who  left the hemlock woods after dark to hunt for field mice.

As for Kiddie Katydid, he paid little attention to any other of the  night cries. No matter what anybody else said, he solemnly hurled back  at him that neverending refrain, _Katy did, Katy did; she did, she did!_

You would have thought, if you had heard Kiddie, that somebody had  disputed his statement. But such was not the case at all. Since no one  except the Katydids knew anything about the mysterious Katy, nobody was  able to say truthfully that she _didn't_ do it. In fact, the whole  affair was a great secret, so far as outsiders were concerned. And one  night Johnnie Green even thrust his head out of the window and cried  impatiently:

"All right! All right! I admit that Katy did it. And now do please keep  still!"

Of course, his plea failed to silence Kiddie Katydid. But it relieved  Johnnie Green's mind and made him feel better, anyhow.

Kiddie told his own people about Johnnie's outburst. And they all agreed  that it was a rude thing to do.

"Doesn't he know," they asked, "that the night belongs to us?"
