A HANDSOME STRANGER (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  LITTLE Mrs. Ladybug was too excited to work. Ever since meeting the  stranger in the orchard she had been able to think of nothing but him.  Perhaps if she hadn't happened to notice his carpetbag, with the words,  "P. Bug, Colorado," upon its side, she might not have been so stirred  up.

Anyhow, Mrs. Ladybug kept wondering what business had brought the  stranger to Pleasant Valley. She wished she could find out what he was  going to do in the potato patch. She wanted to ask him why he chose to  have black stripes on his yellow coat, instead of spots. How long had  he been traveling? When did he expect to leave the farm? There was no  end to the questions that Mrs. Ladybug burned to put to him.

Meanwhile she told the news to everybody she saw. For Mrs. Ladybug  dearly loved to spread choice morsels of gossip. It pleased her mightily  to tell her neighbors something they didn't know.

People listened to her story with great interest. They were eager to  learn all about the stranger, whom Mrs. Ladybug declared to be very  handsome.

Mrs. Ladybug made her news last as long as possible in the telling. She  made her neighbors wait a bit for every fact, so they would enjoy it to  the full. And whenever she stopped anyone and told him about the  newcomer, Mrs. Ladybug kept the best part until the last. She always  ended her remarks by saying, with a most important air, "His name is  Mr. P. Bug. And he comes from Colorado."

That never failed to impress her listeners--which was exactly what Mrs.  Ladybug wanted.

Since nobody asked her how she knew the traveler's name, and where he  came from, Mrs. Ladybug did not trouble herself to explain that she had  read both name and place upon his old-fashioned carpetbag.

There was one thing that puzzled her slightly, when she paused to think  about it. How did it happen that the elegant stranger carried a most  unfashionable bag?

Mrs. Ladybug soon settled that question to her own satisfaction.

"He's like me!" she decided. "Mr. P. Bug is a hard worker and he doesn't  care for show. He's a plain person. No doubt he put on that yellow coat  to travel in, because it's his best. But he'll wear overalls, perhaps,  if he starts to work in the potato patch--as I suspect he will."

At last, however, Mrs. Ladybug met with a rude shock. She was telling  her news to Peppery Polly Bumblebee, one of the workers in the hive  ruled by Buster Bumblebee's mother, the well-known Queen. And to Mrs.  Ladybug's amazement, when she related the name of the stranger, and the  place he came from, Peppery Polly laughed in her face.

"Mr. P. Bug is not from Colorado," said Peppery Polly Bumblebee. "He has  never been off this farm."

Well, Mrs. Ladybug was staggered. She gasped. She clung to a leaf to  keep from failing.

"I don't believe that!" she cried, as soon as she could speak. "I'll  find Mr. Bug himself and learn the truth from him."
