A Handy Sign (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  HUNTING played a great part in the life of Master Meadow Mouse. Somebody  or other was always hunting him. And he was always hunting for something  to eat. He spent a good deal of his time away from home, looking for  seeds and grain. On the other hand, he spent a good deal of his time in  his house; for Master Meadow Mouse liked to take naps--especially in the  daytime.

After he started to live in Farmer Green's woodpile, but moved away from  it before he had finished building his nest there, Master Meadow Mouse  settled near the fence between the meadow and the pasture. The mowing  machine hadn't cut the weeds and grass that grew close to the fence. He  found shelter there from the sharp eyes of birds that would have caught  him had they been able to.

This time Master Meadow Mouse didn't live underground. He made a sort of  little hut for himself, which kept out the cold in chilly weather, and  shed the rain when it didn't pour down too hard.

It was a good home. But it had one drawback. If anybody came along when  its owner was asleep in it--Well, Master Meadow Mouse didn't like to  think about that. The little nest at the end of the tunnel where he had  once lived had been far safer.

"I know what I'll do!" he cried at last, as a happy thought came to him.  "I'll hang a sign outside my door."

He set to work. And soon he had printed a sign. On one side of this was  the notice, "Gone to Lunch. Back To-morrow." And on the other side were  the words, "At Home. Don't Knock. Walk In."

"There!" said Master Meadow Mouse as he stood off a few paces and looked  at his handiwork. "That ought to do the trick."

Then he hung the sign outside his door and went into his house to enjoy  a nap. And the side of the sign that was turned outward said, "Gone to  Lunch. Back To-morrow."

Master Meadow Mouse slept late into the afternoon. And towards sunset,  while he was still asleep, Tommy Fox slipped through the pasture fence.

"Hullo!" he murmured softly as his eyes fell on Master Meadow Mouse's  dwelling. "Here's a bit of luck. I smell a Mouse. And he must be taking  a nap inside his house."

Tommy Fox crept closer to the little hut. Then all at once he  straightened up with a look of displeasure on his sharp face. He had  just noticed the sign.

"He's away from home!" Tommy exclaimed. "That's a pity. He can't have  been gone long. Maybe I can catch him near-by."

But he couldn't find Master Meadow Mouse anywhere. He looked all  around--except inside the shelter where Master Meadow Mouse was fast  asleep.

Tommy Fox came back and read the sign once more.

"Back To-morrow," he muttered. "Very well! I'll come back here  to-morrow. For that's what the sign tells me to do."

And the next day he returned. He grinned from ear to ear as he read what  the sign said: "At Home. Don't Knock. Walk In." Then he thrust his long,  sharp nose right through Master Meadow Mouse's doorway.

There was nobody there. And Tommy Fox looked silly as anything.

"Fooled!" he growled. "Fooled by a Meadow Mouse! I hope nobody ever  finds it out."

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
