A HAPPY THOUGHT (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

Brownie Beaver liked to know what was going on in the world. Butliving far from Pleasant Valley as he did, he seldom heard any newsbefore it was quite old.

"I wish--" he said to Mr. Crow one day, when that old gentleman wasmaking him a visit--"I wish someone would start a newspaper in thisneighborhood."

Mr. Crow told Brownie that he would be glad to bring him an oldnewspaper whenever he happened to find one. "Thank you!" BrownieBeaver said. "You're very kind. But an old newspaper would be of nouse to me."

"Why not?" Mr. Crow inquired. "They make very good beds, I've beentold. And I suppose that is what you want one for."

"Not at all!" Brownie replied. "I'd like to know what's happening overin Pleasant Valley. It takes so long for news to reach us here in ourpond that it's often hardly worth listening to when we hear it--it'sso old. Now, what I'd really prefer is a newspaper that would tell meeverything that's going to happen a week later."

Mr. Crow said he never heard of a newspaper like that.

"Well, somebody ought to start one," Brownie Beaver answered.

Mr. Crow thought deeply for some minutes without saying a word. And atlast He cried suddenly:

"I have an idea!"

"Have you?" Brownie Beaver exclaimed. "What is it, Mr. Crow?"

"I'll be your newspaper!" Mr. Crow told him.

At that Brownie Beaver looked somewhat doubtful.

"That's very kind of you," he said. "But I'm afraid it wouldn't do memuch good. You're so black that the ink wouldn't show on you atall---unless," he added, "they use _white_ ink to print on you."

"You don't understand," old Mr. Crow said. "What I mean is this: I'llfly over here once a week and tell you everything that's happened. Ofcourse," he continued, "I can't very well tell you everything that isgoing to take place the following week. But I'll do my best."

Brownie Beaver was delighted. And when Mr. Crow asked him what day hewanted his newspaper Brownie said that Saturday afternoon would be agood time.

"That's the last day of the week," Brownie Beaver remarked, "so youought to have plenty of news for me. You know, if you came the firstday of the week there would be very little to tell."

"That's so!" said Mr. Crow. "Well say 'Saturday,' then. And you shallhave your newspaper without fail--unless," he explained--"unless thereshould be a bad storm, or unless I should be ill. And, of course, ifFarmer Green should want me to help him in his cornfield, I wouldn'tbe able to come. There might be other things, too, to keep me at home,which I can't think of just now," said Mr. Crow.

Again Brownie Beaver looked a bit doubtful.

"I hope you'll try to be regular," he told Mr. Crow. "When a persontakes a newspaper he doesn't like to be disappointed, you know."

Old Mr. Crow said that he hoped nothing would prevent his coming toBrownie's house every Saturday afternoon.

"There's only one more thing I can think of," he croaked, "that wouldmake it impossible for me to be here. And that is if I should losecount of the days of the week or have to see a baseball game or flysouth for the winter."

"But that's _three_ things, instead of only _one_," Brownie Beaverobjected.

"Well--maybe it is," Mr. Crow replied--"the way you count. But I callit only one because I said it all in one breath, without a singlepause."

"I hope you won't tell me the news as fast as that," said BrownieBeaver, "for if you did I should never be able to remember one-half ofit."

But Mr. Crow promised that he would talk very slowly.

"You'll be perfectly satisfied," he told Brownie. "And now I must gohome at once, to begin gathering news."
