A HOLIDAY (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

There was great rejoicing in the little village in the pond whenBrownie Beaver returned with the good news that there would be no morehunting and fishing. And when old Grandaddy Beaver said that everybodyought to take a holiday to celebrate the occasion, all the villagerssaid it was a fine idea.

So they stopped working, for once, and began to plan the celebration.They thought that there ought to be swimming races and tree-fellingcontests. And Brownie Beaver said that after the holiday was over hewould suggest that someone be chosen to go down and thank Farmer Greenfor putting the notice on the tree.

The whole village agreed to Brownie's proposal and they voted to seewho should be sent. Brownie Beaver himself passed his hat around totake up the votes. And it was quickly found that every vote was forBrownie Beaver. He had even voted for himself. But no one seemed tocare about that.

Then the swimming races began. There was a race under water, a racewith heads out of water--and another in which each person who tookpart had to stay beneath the surface as long as he could.

That last race caused some trouble. A young scamp called Slippery Samwon it. And many people thought that he had swum up inside his house,where he could get air, without being seen. But no one could prove it;so he won the race, just the same.

Next came the tree-felling contest. There were six, including BrownieBeaver, that took part in it. Grandaddy Beaver had picked out sixtrees of exactly the same size. Each person in the contest had to tryto bring his tree to the ground first. And that caused some trouble,too, because some claimed that their trees were of harder wood thanothers--and more difficult to gnaw--while others complained that thebark of their trees tasted very bitter, and of course that made theirtask unpleasant.

Those six trees, falling one after another, made such a racket thatold Mr. Crow heard the noise miles away and flew over to see what washappening.

After everybody crept out of his hiding-place some time afterward(everyone had to hide for a while, you know), there was Mr. Crowsitting upon one of the fallen trees.

"What's going on?" he inquired. "You're not going to cut down thewhole forest, I hope."

Then they told him about the celebration. And Mr. Crow began to laugh.

"What are you going to do next?" he asked.

"We're a-going to send Brownie Beaver over to Pleasant Valley to thankFarmer Green for his kindness in putting an end to hunting andfishing," said old Grandaddy Beaver. "And he's a-going to start rightaway."

Mr. Crow looked around. And there was Brownie Beaver, with alunch-basket in his hand, all ready to begin his long journey.

"Say good-by to him then," said Mr. Crow, "for you'll never see himagain."

"What do you mean?" Grandaddy Beaver asked. And as for Brownie--he wasso frightened that he dropped his basket right in the water.

"I mean----" said Mr. Crow--"I mean that it's a very dangerous errand.You don't seem to have understood that sign. In the first place, itwas not Farmer Green, but his son Johnnie, who nailed It to the tree."

"Ah!" Brownie Beaver cried. "_That_ is why one of the words wasmisspelled!"

"No doubt!" Mr. Crow remarked. As a matter of fact, not being able toread he hadn't known about the word that was spelled wrong. "In thesecond place," he continued, "the sign doesn't mean that hunting andfishing are to be stopped. It means that no one but Johnnie Green isgoing to hunt and fish in this neighborhood. He wants all the huntingand fishing for himself. That's why he put up that sign. And insteadof hunting and fishing being stopped, I should say that they weregoing to begin to be more dangerous than ever.... They tell me," headded, "that Johnnie Green had a new gun on this birthday."

Brownie Beaver said at once that he was not going on the errand ofthanks.

"I resign," he said, "and anyone that wants to go in my place iswelcome to do so."

But nobody cared to go. And the whole village seemed greatlydisappointed, until Grandaddy Beaver made a short speech.

"We've all had a good holiday, anyhow," he said. "And I should saythat was something to be thankful for."
