A JUGFUL OF BUMBLEBEES (Fable Ages 3 to 5)

  When the workers--as well as Buster Bumblebee--heard the raking, scraping  sound in the hall of their house they all stopped what they were doing  and shrilled "An enemy!" And with one accord they rushed for the front  door. They were terribly angry.

Not wishing to miss anything that was going to happen, Buster joined the  mob and went sailing out into the open meadow. And there, quite close to  the door, stood the queer object that Buster had noticed together with  Johnnie Green only a minute before. He wondered now what that strange  thing was; for Buster Bumblebee did not know a jug when he saw one. And  neither did the workers, nor any other member of the Bumblebee family.

"That's the enemy!" cried Buster suddenly, pointing to the jug. "It was  talking out of its mouth right into Johnnie Green's ear when I came  home."

Sounding a dreadful battle cry, all the workers turned upon the jug and  buzzed so near it that they couldn't help hearing the same roaring from  inside it to which Johnnie Green had listened with so much pleasure.

"Buster's almost right!" several of the workers shouted. "The enemy has  hidden inside this thing. And we'll have to go in and sting him."

At that the workers began to pop into the jug, which Johnnie Green had  thoughtfully left uncorked. And Buster Bumblebee, still eager to see  everything, hastened to plunge inside the dim jug along with the rest.

It was soon not a dim but a dark jug. For the moment the last angry  Bumblebee had disappeared inside it Johnnie Green stole quickly up from  behind a haycock and slipped the cork into the mouth of the jug.

Johnnie's face wore a grin of joy. Perhaps he did not stop to realize  that he was breaking up a happy home.

"I've got 'em!" he shouted aloud. And then he shook the jug vigorously,  listening with delight to the sound of the splashing water within. Soon  he set the jug behind the sheltering haycock and sat down beside it to  make further plans. It was Johnnie's intention then to drown everything  on the farm that carried a sting--wasps, hornets, honey bees. He was not  quite sure about mosquitoes, for he thought they might be hard to capture  in great numbers.

Since he was intending to go swimming, he did not care to waste much more  of the afternoon by staying in the meadow. So he proceeded to empty the  jug.

It certainly _looked_ as if the Bumblebee family had met with ill  fortune. Several dozen workers--and Buster, too--lay limp and  water-soaked upon the ground, when Johnnie Green hurried away to the  spring to get more water for his father and the hired man, before he went  to the mill-pond.

But it was not long before the half-drowned Buster and his companions  began to stir slightly. Gradually the sun dried their wings and warmed  their chilled bodies. And one by one they picked themselves up and  scurried into their house.

They never knew exactly what had happened. But the workers agreed upon  one point. They decided that somehow the whole trouble had been Buster's  fault--though they couldn't explain in just what way.

Anyhow, after that the workers looked on Buster with more disfavor than  ever. They were forever remarking how lazy and stupid he was. And even  the trumpeter was heard to declare that she was ashamed of him--though he  _was_ her own brother.
