A LITTLE "HOODLUM'S" VIRTUE KINDLES AT THE TOUCH OF JOY (Fable:- 3 to 5)



 "If you make children happy now, you will make them happy twenty years hence by the memory of it."

The next morning when I reached the little tin shop on the corner,--ablessed trysting-place, forever sacred, where the children waited for mein sunshine, rain, wind, and storm, unless forbidden,--there on the stepsat faithful Patsy, with a clean and shining morning face, all glowingwith anticipation. How well I remember my poor lad's first day! Whereshould I seat him? There was an empty space beside little Mike Higgins,but Mike's character, obtained from a fond and candid parent, had beento the effect "that he was in heaven any time if he could jest lay a boyout flat"! And there was a place by Moses, but he was very much of a fopjust then, owing to a new "second-hand" coat, and might make scathingallusions to Patsy's abbreviated swallow-tail.

But a pull at my skirt and a whisper from the boy decided me.

"Please can't I set aside o' you, Miss Kate?"

"But, Patsy, the fun of it is I never do sit."

"Why, I thought teachers never done nothin' but set!"

"You don't know much about little boys and girls, that's sure! Well,suppose you put your chair in front and close to me. Here is MaggieBruce on one side. She is a real little Kindergarten mother, and willshow you just how to do everything. Won't you, Maggie?"

We had our morning hymn and our familiar talk, in which we always"outlined the policy" of the new day; for the children were apt to beangelic and receptive at nine o'clock in the morning, the unwillingnessof the spirit and weakness of the flesh seldom overtaking them till anhour or so later. It chanced to be a beautiful day, for Helen and I wereboth happy and well, our volunteer helpers were daily growing morezealous and efficient, and there was no tragedy in the immediateforeground.

In one of the morning songs, when Paulina went into the circle and threwgood-morning kisses to the rest, she wafted a dozen of them to theceiling, a proceeding I could not understand.

"Why did you throw so many of your kisses up in the air, dear?" I asked,as she ran back to my side.

"Them was good-mornings to Johnny Cass, so 't he wouldn't feellonesome," she explained; and the tender bit of remembrance was followedout by the children for days afterward. Was it not enough to put us in agentle humor?

Patsy was not equal to the marching when, later on, the Lilliputian armyformed itself in line and kept step to the music of a lively tune, andhe was far too shy on the first day to join in the play, though hewatched the game of the Butterfly with intense interest from his nook bythe piano.

After the tiny worm had wriggled itself realistically into a cocoon itwent to sleep; and after a moment of dramatic silence, the little onechosen for the butterfly would separate herself from the still cocoonand fly about the circle, sipping mimic honey from the child-flowers.

To see Carlotty Griggs "being a butterfly," with utter intensity of joyand singleness of purpose, was a sight to be remembered. For Carlottywas a pickaninny four years old, and blacker than the Ace of Spades! Herpurple calico dress, pink apron, and twenty little woolly braids tiedwith bits of yellow ribbon made her the most tropical of butterflies;and the children, having a strong sense of color and hardly any sense ofhumor, were always entirely carried away by her antics.

[Illustration: CARLOTTY GRIGGS "BEING A BUTTERFLY."]

Carlotty had huge feet,--indeed, Carlotty "toed in," for that matter;but her face shone with delight; her eyes glistened, and so did herteeth; and when she waved her ebony hands and flitted among thechildren, she did it as airily as any real butterfly that ever dancedover a field of clover blossoms.

And if Patsy's joy was great in the play, it was greater still in thework that came afterward. When Helen gave him a scarlet and gold mat toweave, his fingers trembled with eagerness; and the expression of hisface caused that impulsive young person to fly to my side and whisper,"Oh, why should one ever 'want to be an angel' when one can be aKindergartner!"



*

*

*

*

*

From this time on, Patsy was the first to come in the morning and thelast to leave at night. He took the whole institution under hisguardianship, and had a watchful eye for everybody and everythingbelonging to it.

He soon learned the family history of every child in the school, andthose family histories, I assure you, were of an exciting nature; but sogreat were Patsy's prudence and his idea of the proprieties that henever divulged his knowledge till we were alone. Then his tongue wouldbe loosed, and he would break into his half-childlike, half-ancient andreflective conversation.

He had a stormy temper, which, however, he was fast learning to control,and he was not always kind and gentle with his little playfellows; forhe had been raised in a hard school, and the giving and taking of blowswas a natural matter, to him the only feasible manner of settling amisunderstanding.

His conduct to me, however, was touching in its devotion and perfectobedience; and from the first hour he was my poor little knight _sanspeur et sans reproche_.

Meanwhile, though not perfect, he was greatly changed for the better. Wehad given him a neat little coat and trousers, his hair was short andsmooth, and his great dark eyes shone with unutterable content. He wasnever joyous; born under a cloud, he had lived in its shadow, and sorrowtoo early borne had left its indelible impress, to be removed only bythat "undisturbed vision of the Father's face, which is joyunutterable;" but for the first time in his life he was at peace.

The Duchess of Anna Street had moved into a house a trifle better suitedto her exalted station in life; one where the view was better, and thesociety worthy of a fish-peddler's family. Accordingly we transferredthe Kennetts into Number 32, an honor which they took calmly at first,on account of the odor of fish that pervaded the apartments. The threeand four year old Kennetts were now members of our flock, the dull babywas cared for daily by the Infant Shelter, and Mrs. Kennett went outwashing; while her spouse upheld the cause of labor by attendingsand-lot meetings in the afternoon and marching in the evening.

So, in the rainy winter afternoons, when the other children had gone,Patsy and I stayed together and arranged the next day's occupations.Slang was being gradually eliminated from his conversation; but it is nosmall task to correct nine years of bad grammar, and I never succeededin doing it. Alas! the time was all too short.

It was Patsy who sorted the wools and threaded the needles, and setright the sewing-cards of the babies; and only the initiated cancomprehend the labyrinthine maze into which an energetic three-year-oldcan transform a bit of sewing. It was he who fished the needles from thecracks in the floor, rubbed the blackboards, and scrubbed the slates,talking busily the while.

"Jiminy! (I take that back.) Miss Kate, we can't let Jimmy Buck have nomore needles; he sows 'em thick as seed round his chair. Now, now jis'look yere! Ef that Battles chap hain't scratched the hull top of thistable with a buzzer! I'd lam him good ef I was you, I would."

"Do you think our Kindergarten would be the pleasant place it is if Iwhipped little boys every day?"

"No-o-o! But there is times"--

"Yes, I know, Patsy, but I have never found them."

"Jim's stayin' out nights, this week," said he one day, "'nd I hez tostay along o' Mis' Kennett till nine o'clock."

"Why, I thought Jim always stayed at home in the evening."

"Yes, he allers used ter; but he's busy now lookin' up a girl, don't yerknow."

"Looking up a girl! What do you mean, Patsy?"

Patsy scratched his head with the "ten-toothed comb of Nature,"--a habitwhich prevailed with terrible and suggestive frequency when I first came"into my kingdom,"--and answered:--

"Lookin' up a girl! Why, I s'posed yer knew that. I dunno 'zackly. Jimsays all the fellers does. He says he hates to git the feed an' wash thedishes orfly, 'nd girls likes ter do it best of anything."

"Oh!" cried I, light bursting in upon my darkened intellect whendish-washing was mentioned; "he wants to get married!"

"Well, he has ter look up a girl first, don't yer s'pose?"

"Yes, of course; but I don't see how Jim can get money enough to takecare of a wife. He only has thirty dollars a month."

"Well, he's goin' ter get a girl what'll 'go halveys,' don't yer know,and pay for her keep. He'd ruther have a 'millingnary' girl--they're thenicest; but if he can't, he's goin' to try for one out of the boxfactory."

"Oh, Patsy! I wish"--

"Why, didn't I ought ter say that?"

"I wish you had a mother, dear."

"If I had, I'd know more 'n I do now," and a great sigh heaved itselfupward from beneath the blue jacket.

"No, you wouldn't know so much, Patsy, or at least you would get theright end first. Never mind, dear boy, you can't understand."

"Jim says Mis' Kennett 'nd I needn't set such store by you, 'cause thefust chance you gits you'll git married." (I always did have an electiveantipathy for Jim.) "Shall yer, Miss Kate?"

"Why, dear, I think we are very happy as we are, don't you?"

"Yes, ef I could only stay f'rever, 'nd not go ter the reel school. Jimsays I ought ter be gittin' book learnin' pretty soon."

"Did you tell him that Miss Helen was teaching you to read and write alittle while every afternoon?"

"Yes, I told him. He liked it fust rate. Mis' Kennett said she'd let herchildern stay f'rever with yer, ef they never larned a thing, 'nd sowould I, dear, dear Miss Kate! Oh, I bet God would like to see you inthat pretty blue dress!" and he hung over me with a speechless caress;his first, and last indeed, for he was shy and reticent in emotion, andnever once showed his affection in the presence of the other children.

[Illustration: PAULINA'S "GOOD-MORNINGS TO JOHNNY CASS."]
