A LITTLE GENTLEMAN (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  All the four-footed folk in the neighborhood agreed that Dickie Deer  Mouse was well worth knowing. Throughout Pleasant Valley there was no  one else so gentle as he.

To be sure, Jasper Jay wore beautiful--perhaps even gaudy--clothes; but  his manners were so shocking that nobody would ever call him a  gentleman.

As for Dickie Deer Mouse, he was always tastefully dressed in fawn color  and white. And except sometimes in the spring, when he needed a new  coat, he was a real joy to see. For he both looked and acted like a  well-bred little person.

It is too bad that there were certain reasons--which will appear  later--why some of his feathered neighbors did not like him. But even  they had to admit that Dickie was a spick-and-span young chap.

Wherever he was white he was white as snow. And many of the wild people  wondered how he could scamper so fast through the woods and always keep  his white feet spotless.

Possibly it was because his mother had taught him the way when he was  young; for his feet--and the under side of him--were white even when he  was just a tiny fellow, so young that the top side of him was gray  instead of fawn colored.

How his small white feet would twinkle as he frisked about in the  shadows of the woods and ran like a squirrel through the trees! And how  his sharp little cries would break the wood-silence as he called to his  friends in a brisk chatter, which sounded like that of the squirrels,  only ever so far away!

In many other ways Dickie Deer Mouse was like Frisky Squirrel himself.  Dickie's idea of what a good home ought to be was much the same as  Frisky's: they both thought that the deserted nest of one of the big  Crow family made as fine a house as any one could want. And they  couldn't imagine that any food could possibly be better than nuts,  berries and grain.

To be sure, Dickie Deer Mouse liked his nuts to have thin shells. But  that was because he was smaller than Frisky; so of course his jaws and  teeth were not so strong.

Then, too, Dickie Deer Mouse had a trick of gathering good things to  eat, which he hid away in some safe place, so that he would not have to  go hungry during the winter, when the snow lay deep upon the ground. And  even Frisky Squirrel was no spryer at carrying beechnuts--or any other  goody--to his secret cupboard than little white-footed Dickie Deer  Mouse.

It was no wonder that Dickie could be cheerful right in the dead of  winter, when he had a fine store of the very best that the fields and  forest yielded, to keep him sleek and fat and happy. So even on the  coldest nights, when the icy wind whipped the tree-tops, and the cold,  pale stars peeped down among the branches, Dickie scampered through the  woods with his friends and had the gayest of times.

No one would have thought that he had a care in the world.

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
