A LONG, SHARP BILL (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Certainly it was an odd remark that Ferdinand Frog made about the  stranger's wicked-looking bill. But knowing that its owner had eaten  until he had no appetite left for the time being, Mr. Frog forgot his  fear. And he couldn't help being curious about the big bird, because he  had never seen another like him.

Of course, what Mr. Frog said would have annoyed some people a good  deal, for he had just the same as told the stranger that he had _a long,  sharp nose_. But luckily it happened that the newcomer was very vain  both of the length and the sharpness of his bill. So he liked Mr.  Frog's comment. And he promptly forgot his displeasure over Mr. Frog's  tongue.

"Yes!" he said, in response to Ferdinand Frog's speech, "there isn't  another bill like mine for twenty miles around--except my wife's."

"You don't live in this neighborhood, do you?" Mr. Frog inquired.

"My home is beyond the Second Mountain," the stranger informed him.

And Ferdinand Frog was glad to hear that the huge fellow dwelt no  nearer.

"What's your name, friend?" Mr. Frog then asked.

"My name----" the giant bird replied--"my name is G. B. Heron."

"'G. B.'!" Mr. Frog exclaimed, turning a pale green color. "What do  those letters stand for? Not Grizzly Bear, I hope!" He had heard  of--but had never seen--a Grizzly Bear; and for a moment he thought that  perhaps he had met one at last.

But the stranger soon set his fresh fears at rest.

"My full name," he told Mr. Frog, "is Great Blue Heron. But plain Mr.  Heron will do, when you address me."

"I hope I'll see you sooner the next time we meet," Mr. Frog said. And  he resolved that he would keep a sharp eye out for Mr. Heron, so that he  might have plenty of time to hide the moment he caught sight of him.

"There's no doubt that we'll meet again," Mr. Heron replied. "I expect  to come here to live. And I flew over here to-day to look about a  bit. . . . Are there many in your family?"

"No!" Mr. Frog hastened to answer. "There's only myself living in this  pond."

"But you must have plenty of relations somewhere," Mr. G. B. Heron  insisted. "If I came here to live, and anything happened to you, I'd  want to tell your family."

"Well, I have a few relations, to be sure," Mr. Frog admitted. "But they  don't amount to much. They're a stringy lot, I can tell you."

Mr. Heron looked at him as if he couldn't quite believe that statement.

"That's odd," he observed. "Now, you're nice and plump."

"Oh, I'm _too_ fat," Ferdinand Frog said. "Aunt Polly Woodchuck tells me  that if I get much fatter I'll lose my good looks."

"I don't agree with her," said Mr. Heron. "You look good to me."

And now it was Mr. Frog's turn to be pleased; for he was very vain.

"I'm glad to hear it!" he cried. "And I'll tell you a secret: I've  always been quite satisfied with myself until my eyes fell on you. Oh!  if I only had such a bill as yours!"

"You like my bill, then?" Mr. Heron asked him.

"Yes!" Ferdinand Frog answered. "And it must be very handy, too."

"What for?" Mr. Heron inquired.

"Why, for making button-holes!" Ferdinand Frog exclaimed.
