A LONG JOURNEY (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  BY SUNRISE Miss Kitty Cat had trotted at least a mile along the road  that passed the peddler's house. She wanted to get a safe distance away  before the family got up and turned loose the dog that had barked the  night before, when she arrived.

Miss Kitty remembered clearly that the wagon had been climbing a long  hill before it turned into the peddler's dooryard. So without hesitating  she started _down_ the road. She knew that in that direction lay  Pleasant Valley--and her home at Farmer Green's.

Having put the first mile of her journey behind her, Miss Kitty stopped  beside a little brook and drank her fill of cool, sweet water. She was  very thirsty, because she hadn't had a drink since the evening before.

A pretty wood stretched beyond the brook, tempting Miss Kitty Cat to  explore it. At that hour of the morning there were many birds twittering  among the trees. And spry chipmunks were frisking about in search of  their breakfast. Miss Kitty Cat just naturally began to think of her own  breakfast.

"If I were at home, Mrs. Green would be setting a saucer of milk on the  woodshed steps about this time," she murmured. "But now I must shift for  myself."

Luckily Miss Kitty was quite able to find something to eat, as a  surprised meadow mouse soon discovered.

After breakfasting, Miss Kitty lingered a while to tease the birds, who  scolded her shrilly, calling her a tramp and telling her to get out of  their woods.

Of course Miss Kitty had to stay there for a time after that, to let the  birds know that they couldn't frighten her away. She scared them almost  out of their wits by threatening to climb up where their nests were. But  she didn't do more than sharpen her claws against a tree-trunk. That  alone was enough to throw them into a panic.

At last, after she had bothered the birds quite enough, Miss Kitty Cat  set off for Pleasant Valley once more. Sometimes she travelled through  fields; sometimes she jogged along the roads; sometimes she jumped to  the top of a stone wall and used that for a highway. And always when she  heard the creak and rattle of a wagon, as the sun rose higher and  higher, she crept into the bushes and hid until she had the road to  herself again.

If Miss Kitty hadn't been homesick she would have thought her adventure  a great lark. But somehow she couldn't get Mrs. Green's house out of her  mind. Especially the thought of the kitchen, with its delicious odors of  seven-layer cakes baking in the oven, and doughnuts frying on top of the  range, made Miss Kitty's nose twitch. And her own particular warm spot  under the range, where she basked away long hours! When she recalled  that it was no wonder that her pace quickened.

Perhaps Miss Kitty Cat herself couldn't have told exactly how she knew  the way back to Farmer Green's place. No doubt she wouldn't have told,  had she known; for she was one of the kind that keep such things to  themselves. She never even explained to old dog Spot, afterward, where  she spent the three nights that she was away from the farm.

Anyhow, Miss Kitty Cat kept plodding along. And one afternoon when she  came out of a patch of woods on a hill-top, she saw something looming  right ahead of her that looked familiar.

It was Blue Mountain. And she knew that on the other side of it lay  Pleasant Valley--and her home at Farmer Green's.
