A LONG RACE (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  The famous race between Grumpy Weasel and Jimmy Rabbit went on and on.  Jimmy turned and twisted this way and that, up and down and back and  forth through Pleasant Valley. He could still run faster than Grumpy  Weasel, it is true. But he was growing tired. Now and then Jimmy stopped  to rest. And he kept hoping that Grumpy Weasel had become so weary that  he had given up the chase.

But Grumpy Weasel never stopped once. And whenever Jimmy Rabbit spied  him coming along his trail Jimmy would spring up with a sigh and rush  off again.

He began to understand that such a race was no joke. He certainly didn't  want to lose the race. And he certainly didn't want Grumpy Weasel to  come up with him. He had always kept at a good safe distance from that  ill-natured fellow. And Jimmy felt most uneasy now at the thought of  Grumpy's catching him.

"He must be very hungry, after running so far," Jimmy Rabbit said to  himself anxiously. "If he's as hungry as I am he wouldn't be a pleasant  person to meet." And that thought made Jimmy run all the faster, for a  time. But he soon found that he had to stop more often to rest. And to  his great alarm Grumpy Weasel kept drawing nearer all the time.

At last Jimmy Rabbit became so worried that he swept around by the stone  wall again and stopped to whisper to old Mr. Crow.

"He's still chasing me. And I can't run forever. What shall I do?" Jimmy  asked the old gentleman.

"I'll think the matter over and let you know to-morrow," Mr. Crow  muttered hoarsely. To tell the truth, he was alarmed himself. And he had  no idea what Jimmy Rabbit could do to save himself from Grumpy Weasel.

While they talked, Grumpy's cousin, Peter Mink, watched them slyly.

"Who do you think is going to win the race?" he jeered.

Mr. Crow did not even turn his head. He felt very uncomfortable. But he  tried to look unconcerned.

"Run along!" he said to Jimmy. "To-morrow I'll tell you what to do."

"To-morrow--" Jimmy Rabbit panted--"to-morrow will be too late."

Then all at once Mr. Crow had an idea. And he whispered something in  one of Jimmy Rabbit's long ears that made the poor fellow take heart.

"All right!" Jimmy cried. "I'll see you again--sometime!" And away he  ran, just as Grumpy Weasel came racing along the stone wall, looking as  fresh as a daisy.

"You'd better stop and rest a while!" Mr. Crow croaked. "If you get too  tired you'll never win."

"Rest!" Grumpy exploded. "I don't need to rest! I never felt better in  my life, except that I'm pretty hungry. But I'm bound to win this race."  As he spoke of feeling hungry he cast a longing glance at Jimmy Rabbit,  who was just dodging out of sight behind a distant tree.

"Wait here a bit, anyhow!" Mr. Crow urged him. "Since you're sure to  win--as you say--there can be no hurry." And Peter Mink too begged his  cousin Grumpy to stop just a minute. And he laughed, "Ha, ha!" whenever  he looked at Mr. Crow.

And strange to say, Mr. Crow said, "Ha, ha!" too.

[Illustration: Grumpy Calls on Mrs. Hen. (_Page 58_)]
