A LUCKY ACCIDENT (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  It was really no wonder that Johnnie Green's grandmother screamed, when  she and Johnnie and Sandy Chipmunk were on their way to the miller's to  get the wheat ground into flour.

This was what made the good old lady scream: The ancient horse, Ebenezer,  was picking his way slowly down a steep hill, placing one foot carefully  in front of another, and taking pains not to step on the stones in the  road, so he wouldn't fall.

What happened was not Ebenezer's fault at all. You see, he was wearing an  old harness. And just as he was on the steepest part of the hill a strap  broke and the wagon rolled right upon his heels.

Now, many horses would have kicked and run, if such a thing had happened  to them. But even when Johnnie's grandmother screamed, old Ebenezer was  not at all frightened. And even when Johnnie cried "Whoa! whoa!" Ebenezer  did not stop. He thought he knew a good deal more about what he ought to  do than Johnnie Green did, for he had been pulling a wagon for almost  twenty years before Johnnie Green was born.

Johnnie tugged hard upon the reins. But still old Ebenezer went on  picking his way even more slowly. And he never stopped until he reached  the bottom of the hill. Then he stood stock still; and he looked around  at Johnnie Green, as if to say, "There, young man! I've brought you and  your grandma safe down that hill. And _now_ I'll let you get out of the  wagon, if you want to."

Well, Johnnie Green jumped down from his seat and looked at the harness.

"Dear me!" his grandmother said. "If we only had a piece of string you  could mend the harness so we could get to the miller's, at least."

Johnnie felt in all his pockets. And probably that was the first time he  had ever found himself without plenty of string. There were enough other  things in his pockets--a jackknife and nails, an apple and a lump of  maple sugar, an old broken watch and a willow whistle. But not a single  piece of string could Johnnie Green find.

Then he happened to think of the string his father had used to tie up the  sack of wheat. Johnnie stood the sack on end, tipped it against the back  of the seat, so the wheat wouldn't fall out, and unwound the string from  the mouth of the bag.

He had hardly begun to tie the harness together when Grandmother Green  screamed again.

The horse Ebenezer looked around once more, as if to say, "I wonder  what's come over the old lady."

And Johnnie Green turned his head, too.

"My goodness!" his grandmother said. "Did you see that? Something ran  right up my back and jumped off my shoulder. There it goes now!" She  pointed at a small object which was scurrying through the roadside fence.  "Why, it was a chipmunk, I do believe!" she cried. "Now, where do you  suppose he came from?"

Johnnie Green didn't know. And to tell the truth, he didn't much care.  You see, he felt very proud, mending the harness with nobody to help  him. And he was not interested in chipmunks just then.

So Sandy escaped. To be sure, he was so far from home that he didn't know  where he was. But he was so glad to get out of the sack of wheat that he  didn't worry about being lost. He thought he could find some one who  would know where Farmer Green's pasture was.
