A LUCKY FIND (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

Brownie Beaver almost wished he hadn't spent so much time waiting forGrandaddy to tell him to tie down his house so it wouldn't be carriedaway by the big wind on the following day. With no rope--or anythingelse--to tie the house with, Brownie could not see that Grandaddy'sadvice was of any use to him.

Anyhow, he was glad he had done as Tired Tim had suggested and dug ahouse in the bank, where he could hide until the storm passed. But hefelt sad at the thought of losing his comfortable home. And since hecould hardly bear to look at it and imagine how dreadful it would beto have it blown over the top of Blue Mountain into Pleasant Valley,Brownie went for a stroll through the woods to try to forget histrouble.

He found himself at last in a clearing, where loggers had been atwork. They had chopped down many trees. And the sight made BrownieBeaver angry.

"This is an outrage!" he cried aloud. "I'd like to know who has beenstealing our trees. I suppose it's Farmer Green; for they say he'salways up to such tricks." He took a good look around. And then heturned to go back to the village and tell what he had discovered.

Just as he turned he tripped on something. And something clinkedbeneath his feet. It didn't sound like a stone. So Brownie Beaverlooked down to see what was there.

Now, in his anger he had quite forgotten the great storm. But as hesaw what had tripped him he remembered it again. But he was no longerworried.

"Hurrah!" Brownie cried. "Here's just what I need!" And then hehurried back home again--but not to tell about the trees that had beenstolen. He hastened home to _chain down his house_ and save it fromthe great wind. For Brownie Beaver had found a chain, which theloggers had used to haul the logs out of the woods, and had forgotten.

It was almost dark when Brownie reached his house in the village inthe pond. He was never a very good walker. And dragging that heavychain behind him through the forest only made him slower than ever.Sometimes the chain caught on a bush and tripped him. But Brownie wasso pleased with his find that he only laughed whenever he fell, for hewas not hurt.

The whole village gathered round his house to watch him while he tiedthe chain on it and anchored the ends of the chain to the bottom ofthe pond with a big stone.

"Why do you do that?" people asked.

"He's afraid of the cyclone to-morrow," Tired Tim piped up, withoutwaiting for Brownie to answer. "You know, old Grandaddy Beaver saysthat there's going to be a great wind. This young feller----" saidTim--"he's already dug a house in the bank near mine--ha! ha! Hethinks Grandaddy knows. But I say that Grandaddy Beaver is a--a fine,noble, old gentleman," Tired Tim stammered. He had happened to glancearound while he was talking; and to his surprise there was Grandaddyfloating in the water close behind him.

"He certainly is," everybody agreed. "But we hope he's mistaken aboutthe great wind."

When Tuesday came--which was the very next day--Brownie Beaver creptinto his tunnel in the bank at sunrise. And he never came outsideagain until the sun had set.

When he saw that his house was still there, in the middle of the pond,he shouted with joy.

"Hurrah!" he cried. "The chain saved my house!" Then he noticed thatall the other houses were still there, too. "How's this?" he askedTired Tim, who stood on the bank beside him. "Did my chain save thewhole village?"

Tired Tim grinned--for he was not too lazy to do that.

"There wasn't any cyclone," he said. "There wasn't a breath of windall day. And old Grandaddy Beaver is so upset that he's gone to bedand won't talk with anybody."
