A MEALY NOSE (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  It was true, as the bays had said, that Twinkleheels had a mealy nose.  So perhaps it was only natural that they should think he had meal to eat  when they didn't. And he hastened to explain matters to them.

"My mealy nose," he said, "doesn't mean that I've been eating meal. My  nose happens to be the color of meal. All the brushing in the world  wouldn't change it."

The bay pair snorted. It was plain that they didn't believe what  Twinkleheels told them.

"You can ask Ebenezer," Twinkleheels advised them. "He'll tell you that  what I say is true."

"We don't want to ask him," said the bays. "Ask him yourself."

"Don't be rude to this pony!" the old horse Ebenezer chided them. "If  you had spent more of your time off the farm, and seen more horses,  you'd know that mealy noses like his are not uncommon. In my younger  days, when I went to the county fair every fall, I used to meet a great  many horses. And I learned then that mealy noses are by no means rare."

The bays stamped impatiently.

"We don't care to argue about this pony's nose," said the one whose  stall was next to Ebenezer's. "His nose is a small matter. We do insist,  however, that he help with the thrashing. Maybe you've done your share  of the thrashing in times past. But this pony's a loafer. We want to see  him work."

Poor Twinkleheels felt most unhappy. "Haven't I said I'd like to walk on  the tread mill?" Twinkleheels cried. "But Farmer Green would never allow  me to."

"We don't care to argue with you," said the bay who stood beside  Ebenezer. "You are altogether too small for us to bother with any  longer."

"If I'm so small, then I shouldn't think what few oats I eat would annoy  you," said Twinkleheels.

"Oh, your appetite's big enough!" cried the other bay. "You're always  eating something. Yesterday we saw Johnnie Green ride you up to the  kitchen window where Mrs. Green was peeling potatoes. And she gave you a  potato. And you ate it."

"People are always feeding you," echoed the bay's bay mate.

"How can I help that?" Twinkleheels asked them.

"You could decline with thanks," they explained.

Twinkleheels shook his head.

"It wouldn't be polite," he said. "Besides, I like potatoes and apples  and carrots even more than oats and hay."

Just then Farmer Green came into the barn and backed the bays out of  their stalls. They both sighed.

"We're in for it now," they told Ebenezer. "He's going to take us out  and make us walk on the tread mill."

A little later Johnnie Green saddled Twinkleheels and followed his  father and the bays to the field where the thrashing machine stood  beside several stacks of oats.

Before Johnnie and Twinkleheels arrived on the scene a great clatter  warned them that thrashing had already begun. Hurrying up, they found  the bays toiling up the endless path that slid always downward beneath  them.

The bays were a glum appearing pair. Twinkleheels tried to speak to  them, but the thrashing machine made such a racket that they couldn't  hear him whinny; and he couldn't catch their eyes. They wouldn't look at  him.

A stream of oats was pouring out of the grain spout. Johnnie Green  dismounted. Picking up a handful of the newly thrashed oats, he fed  Twinkleheels.

The bays looked at Twinkleheels then. They looked at him with envy.

"That pony has begun to eat up the new oats already," said one of the  bays to his mate. "I hoped he'd have the decency to decline them when  Johnnie Green offered him a taste."

"Not he!" groaned his mate. "That pony even hinted to Johnnie Green that  he'd like some oats. I saw him hint, out of the corner of my eye."

"Ah!" cried the other bay. "Twinkleheels not only has a mealy nose. He's  mealy-mouthed as well!"
