A Midnight Frolic (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  MASTER MEADOW MOUSE had always been pudgy. Before he went to the  cornfield to live he had been fat enough. And after he had spent two  weeks in and out of his new nest in the cornshock he was a sight to see.  His sides bulged. And he had a look as if his skin weren't big enough  for him.

Life had become very easy for Master Meadow Mouse. He didn't even have  to leave home to get all the corn he could eat. He simply crept out of  his nest, and right there in his cornshock he had two dozen ears of ripe  corn. He didn't need to set foot to the ground, unless he wanted a  drink.

Of course Master Meadow Mouse wasn't content to stay at home morning,  noon and night. He scampered away whenever he pleased. Sometimes he went  for a swim in Broad Brook. Sometimes he visited his cousins, who dwelt  in other shocks in the cornfield. And every night he joined the big  Meadow Mouse family in a frolic. They chased one another around the  pumpkins that strewed the ground, dodged behind the shocked corn, or ran  along the rail fence.

During the daytime Master Meadow Mouse and his companions lay low. When  they went abroad they kept a close watch for Mr. Crow. Late as it was,  the old gentleman still lingered in Pleasant Valley. Although his  cronies had started on their yearly journey to the South, he let it be  known that he was expecting to spend the winter in the North.

"I've noticed signs," he had said, "that tell me we're going to have a  mild winter."

Whenever Mr. Crow visited the cornfield, the Meadow Mouse family  hastened to hide. They didn't try to go to their own homes, but plunged  inside the nearest shocks of corn.

Mr. Crow was far from stupid. He knew what was going on right under his  nose--or his bill. Flapping towards the cornfield from the woods he  could see a great scurrying of small, reddish-brown persons. But when he  settled down in the field there was never a Meadow Mouse anywhere in  sight.

"They're stealing corn!" the old gentleman spluttered. "I'd stop them if  I could. But what can I do when they hide the moment they see me  coming?"

The old fellow pondered over the question.

"Somebody," he said, "will have to tear these shocks apart in order to  catch the Meadow Mouse people. And I don't know anyone that could do it  better than Fatty Coon."

Now, Mr. Crow knew where Fatty Coon lived, in a hollow tree in Cedar  Swamp. And he actually started to fly over to the Swamp and ask Fatty  Coon to rid the cornfield of the Meadow Mouse family.

But on the way to Cedar Swamp Mr. Crow happened to think of something.  He happened to think that Fatty Coon had an enormous appetite and was  very fond of corn.

Mr. Crow suddenly veered off his straight course and alighted in a tree.

"That will never do," he croaked. "Fatty would eat more than all the  Meadow Mice in Pleasant Valley."

Little did Mr. Crow know that Fatty Coon was already planning to visit  the cornfield as soon as it grew dark.

Nor did Master Meadow Mouse and his cousins guess that they were to have  an unwelcome guest that night.

As usual, after dark they poured out of their castles in the air to  enjoy their nightly frolic. And they were having what they called "high  jinks" when the word went around to hide.

For somebody squeaked in a frightened voice: "Fatty Coon is crawling  through the pasture fence!"

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
