A MISHAP (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

EXCEPT for the work that his father made him do now and then, there wasonly one thing that bothered Johnnie Green in making his collection ofbutterflies. The weather was not so good as it might have been. He soonfound that there was no use hunting for butterflies except in thesunshine. So when a three days' rain came, Johnnie began to wish hehad started a different sort of collection.

But the weather cleared at last. And the sun came out so bright thatJohnnie fairly pulled old Ebenezer away from the watering-trough andhustled him back to his stall; for he was in a hurry to get to theflower garden with his butterfly net. As for the chickens, they hadvery little food that day.

Once in the garden, Johnnie Green found more butterflies than he hadever noticed before. But as soon as he began chasing them, they flewaway to the meadow. That is, all but Betsy Butterfly. She said she wassure Johnnie Green wouldn't annoy her.

And that was where she was wrong. The moment he caught sight of her,with her mottled red-and-brown wings with the violet tips, Johnniecried: "There's a beauty!"

But Betsy Butterfly was so used to such remarks that she paid littleheed to him. Even when he crept nearer and nearer to her, with old dogSpot at his heels, she did not take fright.

With her tongue deep in a fragrant blossom she was enjoying itsdelicious sweetness when Johnnie Green, bearing his net aloft, sprangat her.

When Johnnie jumped, Betsy Butterfly started up in alarm. She had reallywaited until it was too late. And if something unexpected hadn'thappened to Johnnie Green, Betsy would surely have had a place in hiscollection.

But luckily for her, Johnnie met with a fall. He may have tripped on avine. Or his foot may have slipped on the wet ground. Anyhow, he fellsprawling among the flowers, dropping his precious net as he stretchedout his hands to save himself.

Johnnie's fall gave Betsy Butterfly her only chance. Coiling her longtongue out of her way, she quickly made her escape.

So Johnnie Green lost her. But she was not all that he lost. A strangeaccident happened just as he fell, for old dog Spot leaped forward atthe same time. And, much to his surprise, Spot found his head inside thebutterfly net. The long broomstick handle thumped him sharply on hisback. And the silly fellow took fright at once.

With yelps of terror he scurried out of the flower garden. And Johnniepicked himself up just in time to see Spot tearing across the meadowtoward the woods.

"Spot! Spot! Come back!" Johnnie Green shouted. But old Spot paid noattention to his young master. Perhaps he was too scared to hear him.

Spot wanted to get rid of that net that covered his head. And he knew ofno better place to go than the woods where he hoped to be able to freehimself from his odd muzzle by rubbing against a tree or nosing amongsome bushes.

Johnnie ran a little way after him. But when he saw Spot duck into thewoods he turned back sadly towards the house. For all he knew, old Spotmight run a mile further before he stopped.

Johnnie would have to make a new net if he wanted to catch any morebutterflies for his collection.

And the trouble was, he had no more mosquito netting.

A good many of the field people saw old Spot as he dashed off with thebutterfly net over his head. And they enjoyed a hearty laugh at thestrange sight.

As for Betsy Butterfly, she had learned to watch out for Johnnie Green.And she knew that another time he would have to be twice as spry as hehad shown himself, if he expected to capture her.

Old Spot didn't come home till afternoon. When he appeared at last helooked very sheepish. He hoped no one had noticed his fright. And hewouldn't go near the flower garden again for a whole week.
