A Moonlight Raid (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  THE Meadow Mouse party, in the cornfield, vanished as if by magic. Not  one of the merrymakers lingered an instant after hearing that Fatty Coon  was entering the field. And since Master Meadow Mouse happened to be  near the shock where he lived, he ran up it in a twinkling and crept  inside it, to curl up in his nest and try to catch forty winks.

He felt safe enough. Hadn't old Mr. Crow come to the cornfield every  day? _He_ had never even poked into a shock to disturb Master Meadow  Mouse or one of his cousins. Mr. Crow had eaten corn, to be sure. But  he hadn't bothered anybody. And now Master Meadow Mouse thought that as  soon as Fatty Coon had stuffed himself with corn he would stroll back to  Cedar Swamp.

Master Meadow Mouse had fallen into a doze when a sharp rustle waked  him.

"Ho, ho!" he chuckled. "There's Fatty Coon now! He's pulling an ear of  corn off my shock. Well, I don't believe I'll miss it. There's corn  enough in this field for everybody."

Master Meadow Mouse tried to go to sleep again.

"I wish Fatty Coon wouldn't make so much noise," said Master Meadow  Mouse, grumbling a little because he was very drowsy and didn't like to  be disturbed.

"There!" he exclaimed after a few moments. "He's gone, thank goodness!"

But Fatty Coon had only carried his ear of corn to Broad Brook, to wash  it before he gobbled the kernels. He was very particular to wash almost  everything he ate. But that was about the only way in which he was  fussy. There was nothing, almost, that he wouldn't bolt greedily.

After he had devoured the first ear of corn, Fatty Coon went back and  pulled another off the same shock.

Again he roused Master Meadow Mouse from his slumbers.

"He's at it again!" Master Meadow Mouse complained. "I wish he'd go to  some other shock."

The third time that Fatty Coon wrenched an ear of corn from the shock  where Master Meadow Mouse lived he paused and cocked an ear towards the  top of the shock.

"Was that a squeak?" he asked himself. And then he sniffed. "Ha!" he  cried. "Do I smell a Meadow Mouse?"

Fatty Coon was not mistaken. When he rustled the dried cornstalks the  third time, Master Meadow Mouse had cried right out in his sleep. And he  waked up just soon enough to hear Fatty Coon's remarks.

"Maybe you do smell a Meadow Mouse," he replied under his breath, so  Fatty Coon couldn't hear him. "But it won't do you any good; for I'm not  coming out of my castle until you go away."

It soon appeared that Fatty Coon did not intend to leave. For Fatty  began to pull at the cornstalks with his claws. Although Farmer Green  had bound the stalks together tightly, one by one Fatty tore them loose  and let them fall upon the ground.

And inside the shock Master Meadow Mouse suddenly started up in alarm.



  [Illustration]
