A MYSTERIOUS DOG (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 10)

The elm-tree avenue was all overgrown, the great gate was never  unlocked, and the old house had been shut up for several years.

Yet voices were heard about the place, the lilacs nodded over the high  wall as if they said, "We could tell fine secrets if we chose," and the  mullein outside the gate made haste to reach the keyhole, that it might  peep in and see what was going on. If it had suddenly grown up like a  magic bean-stalk, and looked in on a certain June day, it would have  seen a droll but pleasant sight, for somebody evidently was going to  have a party.

From the gate to the porch went a wide walk, paved with smooth slabs of  dark stone, and bordered with the tall bushes which met overhead, making  a green roof. All sorts of neglected flowers and wild weeds grew between  their stems, covering the walls of this summer parlor with the prettiest  tapestry. A board, propped on two blocks of wood, stood in the middle of  the walk, covered with a little plaid shawl much the worse for wear, and  on it a miniature tea-service was set forth with great elegance. To be  sure, the tea-pot had lost its spout, the cream-jug its handle, the  sugar-bowl its cover, and the cups and plates were all more or less  cracked or nicked; but polite persons would not take notice of these  trifling deficiencies, and none but polite persons were invited to this  party.

On either side of the porch was a seat, and here a somewhat remarkable  sight would have been revealed to any inquisitive eye peering through  the aforesaid keyhole. Upon the left-hand seat lay seven dolls, upon the  right-hand seat lay six; and so varied were the expressions of their  countenances, owing to fractures, dirt, age, and other afflictions, that  one would very naturally have thought this a doll's hospital, and these  the patients waiting for their tea.

This, however, would have been a sad mistake; for if the wind had lifted  the coverings laid over them, it would have disclosed the fact that all  were in full dress, and merely reposing before the feast should begin.

There was another interesting feature of the scene which would have  puzzled any but those well acquainted with the manners and customs of  dolls. A fourteenth rag baby, with a china head, hung by her neck from  the rusty knocker in the middle of the door. A sprig of white and one of  purple lilac nodded over her, a dress of yellow calico, richly trimmed  with red-flannel scallops, shrouded her slender form, a garland of small  flowers crowned her glossy curls, and a pair of blue boots touched toes  in the friendliest, if not the most graceful, manner. An emotion of  grief, as well as of surprise, might well have thrilled any youthful  breast at such a spectacle; for why, oh! why, was this resplendent dolly  hung up there to be stared at by thirteen of her kindred? Was she a  criminal, the sight of whose execution threw them flat upon their backs  in speechless horror? Or was she an idol, to be adored in that humble  posture? Neither, my friends. She was blonde Belinda, set, or rather  hung, aloft, in the place of honor, for this was her seventh birthday,  and a superb ball was about to celebrate the great event. All were  evidently awaiting a summons to the festive board; but such was the  perfect breeding of these dolls, that not a single eye out of the whole  twenty-seven (Dutch Hans had lost one of the black beads from his  worsted countenance) turned for a moment toward the table, or so much as  winked, as they lay in decorous rows, gazing with mute admiration at  Belinda. She, unable to repress the joy and pride which swelled her  sawdust bosom till the seams gaped, gave an occasional bounce as the  wind waved her yellow skirts, or made the blue boots dance a sort of jig  upon the door. Hanging was evidently not a painful operation, for she  smiled contentedly, and looked as if the red ribbon around her neck was  not uncomfortably tight; therefore, if slow suffocation suited her, who  else had any right to complain? So a pleasing silence reigned, not even  broken by a snore from Dinah, the top of whose turban alone was visible  above the coverlet, or a cry from baby Jane, though her bare feet stuck  out in a way that would have produced shrieks from a less well-trained  infant.

Presently voices were heard approaching, and through the arch which led  to a side-path came two little girls, one carrying a small pitcher, the  other proudly bearing a basket covered with a napkin. They looked like  twins, but were not, for Bab was a year older than Betty, though only an  inch taller. Both had on brown calico frocks, much the worse for a  week's wear; but clean pink pinafores, in honor of the occasion, made up  for that, as well as the gray stockings and thick boots. Both had round,  rosy faces rather sunburnt, pug noses somewhat freckled, merry blue  eyes, and braided tails of hair hanging down their backs like those of  the dear little Kenwigses.

"Don't they look sweet?" cried Bab, gazing with maternal pride upon the  left-hand row of dolls, who might appropriately have sung in chorus, "We  are seven."

"Very nice; but my Belinda beats them all. I do think she is the  splendidest child that ever was!" And Betty set down the basket to run  and embrace the suspended darling, just then kicking up her heels with  joyful abandon.

"The cake can be cooling while we fix the children. It does smell  perfectly delicious!" said Bab, lifting the napkin to hang over the  basket, fondly regarding the little round loaf that lay inside.

"Leave some smell for me!" commanded Betty, running back to get her fair  share of the spicy fragrance. The pug noses sniffed it up luxuriously,  and the bright eyes feasted upon the loveliness of the cake, so brown  and shiny, with a tipsy-looking B in pie-crust staggering down one side,  instead of sitting properly a-top.

"Ma let me put it on the very last minute, and it baked so hard I  couldn't pick it off. We can give Belinda that piece, so it's just as  well," observed Betty, taking the lead, as her child was queen of the  revel.

"Let's set them round, so they can see too," proposed Bab, going, with a  hop, skip, and jump, to collect her young family.

Betty agreed, and for several minutes both were absorbed in seating  their dolls about the table; for some of the dear things were so limp  they wouldn't sit up, and others so stiff they wouldn't sit down, and  all sorts of seats had to be contrived to suit the peculiarities of  their spines. This arduous task accomplished, the fond mammas stepped  back to enjoy the spectacle, which, I assure you, was an impressive one.  Belinda sat with great dignity at the head, her hands genteelly holding  a pink cambric pocket-handkerchief in her lap. Josephus, her cousin,  took the foot, elegantly arrayed in a new suit of purple and green  gingham, with his speaking countenance much obscured by a straw hat  several sizes too large for him; while on either side sat guests of  every size, complexion, and costume, producing a very gay and varied  effect, as all were dressed with a noble disregard of fashion.

"They will like to see us get tea.  Did you forget the buns?" inquired  Betty, anxiously.

"No; got them in my pocket." And Bab produced from that chaotic cupboard  two rather stale and crumbly ones, saved from lunch for the fete. These  were cut up and arranged in plates, forming a graceful circle around the  cake, still in its basket.

"Ma couldn't spare much milk, so we must mix water with it. Strong tea  isn't good for children, she says." And Bab contentedly surveyed the  gill of skim-milk which was to satisfy the thirst of the company.

"While the tea draws and the cake cools, let's sit down and rest; I'm so  tired!" sighed Betty, dropping down on the door-step and stretching out  the stout little legs which had been on the go all day; for Saturday had  its tasks as well as its fun, and much business had preceded this  unusual pleasure. Bab went and sat beside her, looking idly down the  walk toward the gate, where a fine cobweb shone in the afternoon sun.

"Ma says she is going over the house in a day or two, now it is warm and  dry after the storm, and we may go with her. You know she wouldn't take  us in the fall, cause we had whooping-cough, and it was damp there. Now  we shall see all the nice things; won't it be fun?" observed Bab, after  a pause.

"Yes, indeed! Ma says there's lots of books in one room, and I can look  at 'em while she goes round. May be I'll have time to read some, and  then I can tell you," answered Betty, who dearly loved stories, and  seldom got any new ones.

"I'd rather see the old spinning-wheel up garret, and the big pictures,  and the queer clothes in the blue chest. It makes me mad to have them  all shut up there, when we might have such fun with them. I'd just like  to bang that old door down!" And Bab twisted round to give it a thump  with her boots. "You needn't laugh; you know you'd like it as much as  me," she added, twisting back again, rather ashamed of her impatience.

"I didn't laugh."

"You did!  Don't you suppose I know what laughing is?"

"I guess I know I didn't."

"You did laugh!  How darst you tell such a fib?"

"If you say that again I'll take Belinda and go right home; then what  will you do?"

"I'll eat up the cake."

"No, you won't!  It's mine, Ma said so; and you are only company, so  you'd better behave or I won't have any party at all, so now."

This awful threat calmed Bab's anger at once, and she hastened to  introduce a safer subject.

"Never mind; don't let's fight before the children. Do you know, Ma says  she will let us play in the coach-house next time it rains, and keep the  key if we want to."

"Oh, goody! that's because we told her how we found the little window  under the woodbine, and didn't try to go in, though we might have just  as easy as not," cried Betty, appeased at once, for, after a ten years'  acquaintance, she had grown used to Bab's peppery temper.

"I suppose the coach will be all dust and rats and spiders, but I don't  care. You and the dolls can be the passengers, and I shall sit up in  front drive."

"You always do.  I shall like riding better than being horse all the  time, with that old wooden bit in my mouth, and you jerking my arms  off," said poor Betty, who was tired of being horse continually.

"I guess we'd better go and get the water now," suggested Bab, feeling  that it was not safe to encourage her sister in such complaints.

"It is not many people who would dare to leave their children all alone  with such a lovely cake, and know they wouldn't pick at it," said Betty  proudly, as they trotted away to the spring, each with a little tin pail  in her hand.

Alas, for the faith of these too confiding mammas! They were gone about  five minutes, and when they returned a sight met their astonished eyes  which produced a simultaneous shriek of horror. Flat upon their faces  lay the fourteen dolls, and the cake, the cherished cake, was gone.

For an instant the little girls could only stand motionless, gazing at  the dreadful scene. Then Bab cast her water-pail wildly away, and,  doubling up her fist, cried out fiercely,--

"It was that Sally!  She said she'd pay me for slapping her when she  pinched little Mary Ann, and now she has. I'll give it to her! You run  that way. I'll run this. Quick! quick!"

Away they went, Bab racing straight on, and bewildered Betty turning  obediently round to trot in the opposite direction as fast as she could,  with the water splashing all over her as she ran, for she had forgotten  to put down her pail. Round the house they went, and met with a crash at  the back door, but no sign of the thief appeared.

"In the lane!" shouted Bab.

"Down by the spring!" panted Betty; and off they went again, one to  scramble up a pile of stones and look over the wall into the avenue, the  other to scamper to the spot they had just left. Still, nothing appeared  but the dandelions' innocent faces looking up at Bab, and a brown bird  scared from his bath in the spring by Betty's hasty approach.

Back they rushed, but only to meet a new scare, which made them both cry  "Ow!" and fly into the porch for refuge.

A strange dog was sitting calmly among the ruins of the feast, licking  his lips after basely eating up the last poor bits of bun, when he had  bolted the cake, basket, and all, apparently.

"Oh, the horrid thing!" cried Bab, longing to give battle, but afraid,  for the dog was a peculiar as well as a dishonest animal.

"He looks like our China poodle, doesn't he?" whispered Betty, making  herself as small as possible behind her more valiant sister.

He certainly did; for, though much larger and dirtier than the  well-washed China dog, this live one had the same tassel at the end of  his tail, ruffles of hair round his ankles, and a body shaven behind and  curly before. His eyes, however, were yellow, instead of glassy black,  like the other's; his red nose worked as he cocked it up, as if smelling  for more cakes, in the most impudent manner; and never, during the three  years he had stood on the parlor mantel-piece, had the China poodle done  the surprising feats with which this mysterious dog now proceeded to  astonish the little girls almost out of their wits. First he sat up, put  his forepaws together, and begged prettily; then he suddenly flung his  hind-legs into the air, and walked about with great ease. Hardly had  they recovered from this shock, when the hind-legs came down, the  fore-legs went up, and he paraded in a soldierly manner to and fro, like  a sentinel on guard. But the crowning performance was when he took his  tail in his mouth and waltzed down the walk, over the prostrate dolls,  to the gate and back again, barely escaping a general upset of the  ravaged table.

Bab and Betty could only hold each other tight and squeal with delight,  for never had they seen any thing so funny; but, when the gymnastics  ended, and the dizzy dog came and stood on the step before them barking  loudly, with that pink nose of his sniffing at their feet, and his queer  eyes fixed sharply upon them, their amusement turned to fear again, and  they dared not stir.

"Whish, go away!" commanded Bab.

"Scat!" meekly quavered Betty.

To their great relief, the poodle gave several more inquiring barks, and  then vanished as suddenly as he appeared. With one impulse, the children  ran to see what became of him, and, after a brisk scamper through the  orchard, saw the tasselled tail disappear under the fence at the far  end.

"Where do you s'pose he came from?" asked Betty, stopping to rest on a  big stone.

"I'd like to know where he's gone, too, and give him a good beating, old  thief!" scolded Bab, remembering their wrongs.

"Oh, dear, yes! I hope the cake burnt him dreadfully if he did eat it,"  groaned Betty, sadly remembering the dozen good raisins she chopped up,  and the "lots of 'lasses" mother put into the dear lost loaf.

"The party's all spoilt, so we may as well go home; and Bab mournfully  led the way back. Betty puckered up her face to cry, but burst out  laughing in spite of her woe.

"It was so funny to see him spin round and walk on his head!  I wish  he'd do it all over again; don't you?"

"Yes: but I hate him just the same.  I wonder what Ma will say  when--why! why!" and Bab stopped short in the arch, with her eyes as  round and almost as large as the blue saucers on the tea-tray.

"What is it? oh, what is it?" cried Betty, all ready to run away if any  new terror appeared.

"Look! there! it's come back!" said Bab in an awe-stricken whisper,  pointing to the table. Betty did look, and her eyes opened even  wider,--as well they might,--for there, just where they first put it, was  the lost cake, unhurt, unchanged, except that the big B had coasted a  little further down the gingerbread hill.
