A Narrow Escape (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  [Illustration: 6 A Narrow Escape]

  Frisky Squirrel had a hard time pushing the wheelbarrow home with Jimmy  Rabbit on top of the load of vegetables. He puffed and groaned. And he  had to stop every little while to catch his breath.

"You see, you're not used to wheeling a wheelbarrow," Jimmy told him.  "For me, it's no trouble at all. But then, I'm stronger than you are."

Now, Frisky had been almost ready to tell Jimmy that he might trundle  the barrow the rest of the way. But when he heard that he made up his  mind that he would get that wheelbarrow up the hill to Jimmy's house if  he didn't do another thing that day.

So he started on again. And at last he stopped in front of Jimmy  Rabbit's door.

Jimmy hopped nimbly to the ground. But poor Frisky was so tired that he  lay right down and went to sleep. And the next day he never went near  Farmer Green's garden.

But Jimmy Rabbit didn't mind that at all. There were plenty of others  who wanted to trundle the wheelbarrow. And this time Jimmy told Billy  Woodchuck that _he_ might wheel the barrow home for him.

Once more Jimmy Rabbit stood by while the vegetables were gathered for  him. Once more he seated himself on top of the load. And once more he  had a free ride up the long hill. Jimmy had changed his mind about  Farmer Green's garden. He even asked his mother if he might not bring  home two loads of vegetables each day, instead of only one. And he was  disappointed when she said "No!"

There was one thing, however, that Jimmy had overlooked. As the days  went by, one by one his friends stayed away from the garden-patch. And  at last there was nobody left who wanted to push the wheelbarrow except  Fatty Coon. And Fatty Coon was really no friend of his at all. In fact,  Jimmy did not like him, because he never could feel sure that Fatty  would not get hungry all at once and try to eat him.

But Fatty teased so hard that at last Jimmy agreed to give him his turn  at the fun (Jimmy was always careful to speak of gathering vegetables  and wheeling them home as "fun").

When the barrow was full, Jimmy Rabbit again climbed on top of the load.  But he kept very close watch of Fatty. And he was ready, any moment, to  leap off the wheelbarrow in case Fatty should reach for his legs.

Fatty Coon was strong. He did not tire so easily as the others had. But  finally he let go the handles and straightened up.

"What's the matter?" asked Jimmy. "You're not tired, are you?"

"No!" said Fatty. "But it's harder work than I supposed. I declare, I'm  getting terribly hungry."

When Jimmy Rabbit heard him say that, his heart went _pitty-pat_. And he  almost ran away, then and there.

But what would become of his nice new wheelbarrow if he did that? He was  afraid that Fatty Coon would run off with it.

"My goodness! I'm growing hungrier every minute!" said Fatty Coon.

Then Jimmy Rabbit had a happy thought. He grabbed up a handful of green  peas and tossed them to Fatty.

"Here!" he said. "Eat those! Maybe they'll make you feel better."

Fatty Coon ate the peas greedily.

"More!" he said. As you see, he was not very polite.

Jimmy threw him two handfuls then.

Still Fatty Coon said "More!"

So Jimmy rolled a turnip off the load. And after that he threw out a  cabbage, and then a head of lettuce.

"More! more! more!" Fatty ordered.

And soon Jimmy Rabbit saw with dismay that the vegetables were nearly  all gone. In a few moments he reached the very last one--a big turnip  which he could hardly lift.

But he managed to pick it up and raise it above his head. And then with  all his might he threw the turnip straight at Fatty Coon.

Fatty was just opening his mouth to say "More!" But he never said it.  The big turnip struck him right on his fat stomach and knocked his  breath out. He gave a faint groan and toppled over on the ground. And he  was so fat that he started to roll.

Though he clawed at the grass to stop himself, he rolled faster and  faster down the hill.

He was a very comical sight. And at any other time Jimmy Rabbit would  have stopped to laugh. But Jimmy was so glad to be rid of Fatty Coon  that he picked up the handles of his little wheelbarrow and ran home as  fast as he could jump.
