A NEW SUIT (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Throughout Pleasant Valley the very name of Grumpy Weasel was a bugaboo.  Those of his size, and many a good deal bigger than he, learned early to  avoid him.

One of the first things Sandy Chipmunk's mother did was to teach him to  beware of Grumpy. And twice during his first summer Sandy caught a  glimpse of Grumpy as he flashed past like a brown streak, with a gleam  of white showing underneath.

It was lucky for Sandy that on both occasions Grumpy was intent on  chasing somebody or other. And each time that Sandy told his mother  what he had seen, Mrs. Chipmunk said that she hoped it would never  happen again.

"I'm glad that you know what he looks like, anyhow," she added.

"Oh, I'll know him if I see him!" Sandy cried.

"Don't stop for a second look!" his mother warned him.

"I won't!" he promised. "I won't even stop to say, 'How do you do!'"

"I should hope not!" Mrs. Chipmunk said severely.

So Sandy Chipmunk went through his first summer on the watch for a long,  slender, brownish shape. But he never saw Grumpy Weasel again. And  winter found the Chipmunk family all unharmed, and very comfortable in  their cozy house below frost line.

On mild days Sandy liked to visit the world above and find a rock bare  of snow, where he could enjoy the sunshine.

It was on one of those outings that he caught sight of a stranger headed  for the stone wall near-by. At first Sandy missed seeing him, against  the snow. But when he reached the wind-swept wall Sandy couldn't help  noticing him. He was a slim gentleman and--except for his black-tipped  tail--was dressed all in white.

After spending the winter underground Sandy Chipmunk was glad to talk  with the first person he saw. So he called to the stranger that it was a  fine day, wasn't it?

The other wheeled about so quickly that Sandy couldn't help laughing.

"Don't be nervous!" Sandy cried. "I won't hurt you!"

But the stranger didn't answer. Once he opened his mouth. And Sandy  Chipmunk had a queer feeling then that he had met the fellow before.  That mouth had plenty of white, needle-like teeth. It had a cruel look,  too.

Then the stranger jumped straight toward Sandy Chipmunk. And in that  instant Sandy knew who he was. No one could leap like that except Grumpy  Weasel!

Sandy turned and ran madly for shelter. Luckily he had the advantage of  Grumpy in one way. He had a bare ledge to run on, while Grumpy Weasel  had to flounder for some distance through a snow-choked hollow.

So Sandy escaped. And it was lucky that Grumpy didn't find the door to  the Chipmunk family's burrow. If he had he would have gone right in  himself.

Mrs. Chipmunk blamed herself for Sandy's adventure. She had never  remembered to tell her son that every fall Grumpy Weasel changed his  summer dress for the one in which Sandy had just seen him.
