A NEW NAME FOR DADDY (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  DADDY LONGLEGS' neighbor, little Mr. Chippy, had an idea. And since he  thought it a good one he at once arranged a meeting of a number of his  friends who lived near him.

Among those present were Buster Bumblebee, Betsy Butterfly, Rusty Wren,  and several others. They met in Farmer Green's apple orchard. And they  all arrived there early because everybody was eager to know what Mr.  Chippy had to say.

"My idea----" Mr. Chippy began----"my idea is this: since Daddy Longlegs  is so changed, after losing one of his legs, we really ought to call  him by a different name. Now that he has only seven legs--instead of  eight--it doesn't seem polite to say anything about _legs_ in his  hearing."

As Mr. Chippy paused and looked about him the whole company agreed that  his idea was an excellent one.

"But I don't know where we're going to find a new name for him," said  Buster Bumblebee, who never had many ideas of his own.

"That's easy!" Mr. Chippy told him. "I've thought of a splendid name.  And I'm perfectly willing to let you use it.... It's _Grandfather  Graybeard_!"

Most of the company clapped their hands when Mr. Chippy said that. But  Buster Bumblebee spoke up and said that he didn't think much of that  name, because Daddy Longlegs had no beard.

"Well, for all you know he may decide to wear one, any day," Mr. Chippy  replied.

And then all the company applauded again--except Buster Bumblebee.

"How do you know Daddy Longlegs is a grandfather?" he asked Mr. Chippy.

"How do you know he isn't?" Mr. Chippy asked _him_.

And then everybody but Buster cried out that "Grandfather Graybeard" was  a fine name for Daddy Longlegs. And many remarked that Daddy would be  greatly pleased when he heard the news.

"Thank you!" said Mr. Chippy, making a low bow with his hand on his  heart. "And now if it is the pleasure of the meeting I will go back to  the stone wall at once and tell Daddy Longlegs what we have decided to  do."

To Mr. Chippy's surprise a murmur of dissent greeted his proposal.

"What's the matter?" asked Mr. Chippy! "I thought you liked my idea."

"So we do!" Rusty Wren replied. "But we think it would be better if we  _all_ called on Daddy and explained to him about the change."

"Very well!" little Mr. Chippy answered. "The more the merrier! I'll be  the spokesman. And I will suggest that we start for the stone wall right  now, for there's no time like the present, you know."

Even Buster Bumblebee approved of Mr. Chippy's retort. And with that  everybody started pell-mell for the stone wall.
