A NEW KIND OF PIG (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  "Stop grunting and squealing and follow me!" old dog Spot growled. And  Grunty Pig, who had just tumbled through a hole in the fence, scrambled  to his feet and trotted after his guide.

Old Spot had promised to show Grunty a dozen pink and white pigs, all  without tails. He wanted Grunty to see how handsome they looked.

"You'll like them," Spot told Grunty over his shoulder as they jogged  across the farmyard. "You'll ask Farmer Green this very day to cut off  your tail and nail it up on the barn. I tell you, these pigs look  _neat_. There's _style_ about them."

"Umph! Umph!" said Grunty Pig as he shuffled along behind.

"Now, I wonder what he meant by that!" Spot mused. It was sometimes hard  to tell whether Grunty's _umphs_ stood for _yes_ or _no_.

Around the corner of the farmhouse, near the woodshed door, old dog Spot  came to a halt before a two-storied cage, the front of which was covered  with fine-meshed wire netting.

Stopping beside Spot, Grunty Pig peered inside the cage. He saw a number  of odd little creatures running about upon the sawdust-strewn floor of  the tiny house, one or another of them giving a faint squeak now and  then as if ordering the two unasked callers to move on.

Whoever they were, they were a bright-eyed little family. But Grunty  Pig thought, as he stared at them, that they had a most peculiar look.  There seemed to be something missing about them. Yet he couldn't tell  just what it was.

Together Grunty and Spot stood there, silent, for a time; until at last  Grunty said, "Come along! Let's not stay here any longer. I want to see  those twelve pigs without tails."

Old dog Spot snorted.

"You _want_ to see them!" he cried. "Well, nobody's stopping you.  They're right here in front of you!"

Grunty Pig's mouth fell open--he was so astonished. He knew, now, what  made the little, pudgy, white strangers look so queer. There wasn't one  of them that had even a hint of a tail!

Then all at once Grunty turned angrily upon old dog Spot.

"These aren't pigs!" he squealed. "You needn't think you can fool me.  They're not pigs at all."

"Oh, yes--they are!" Spot insisted. "You didn't suppose that all the  pigs in the world were exactly like your family--did you?"

Grunty didn't know what to say. He looked at the odd little creatures  again. And then he looked at Spot once more.

"If these really are pigs," he faltered, "they must be very, very young.  They're certainly smaller than any day-old pigs I ever saw.... Maybe  their tails haven't sprouted yet."

Old dog Spot seemed to choke over something. He turned his head away for  a moment or two before he spoke.

"These pigs," he said, "won't ever have tails. Not one of them would  know what to do with a tail if you gave him one. They don't want tails.  They have no use for them. And now that you see for yourself how happy  they are without tails, you ought not to delay any longer about having  yours cut off. I hope," Spot added, "I'll see your tail nailed up on the  barn to-morrow, where everybody can admire it."

Then Grunty Pig said something that surprised him.

"Why don't you have your own tail cut off?" he asked old Spot.

And before old Spot could think of an answer, Johnnie Green came running  out of the woodshed.

"Get away from my guinea pigs!" he shouted.

Grunty and Spot both turned and ran in opposite directions. Grunty  didn't see Spot again for more than a week. When they did at last meet,  old Spot never mentioned tails at all. To tell the truth, he seemed to  feel somewhat ashamed of himself for having tried to play a trick on  Grunty Pig.

Or maybe he felt ashamed because he was caught at it.
