A NOISY QUARREL (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  One odd thing marked Bobby Bobolink's flights. He never flew in a  straight course, as old Mr. Crow did, but darted this way and that,  crossing and turning and wheeling, until it seemed sometimes--to  onlookers--that he was sure to skid into a tree and meet with an  accident. And usually Bobby Bobolink would sing with such zest  while he was frisking about in the air that it was a marvel to  many how he could do two things like that, at the same time, and  yet put so much life into each.

Old Mr. Crow claimed that the reason why Bobby Bobolink didn't fly  straight was because he had his mind too much on his singing.

"He's nothing but a music-box with wings," Mr. Crow often croaked. "As a  flier he couldn't even beat crazy Benjamin Bat."

It was the general opinion that Benjamin Bat could make a longer journey  between two points than anybody else in Pleasant Valley. And there were  some that disputed Mr. Crow's statement. Jasper Jay even went out of his  way to tell Mr. Crow that he had heard of his remark, and that he was  mistaken. And they had such a wrangle that they annoyed Mr. Hermit  Thrush, way over on the other side of Cedar Swamp. Old Mr. Crow and  Jasper Jay were cousins. And everybody knows that there is nothing  worse than a cousinly quarrel.

In order to quiet them, the Hermit left his mossy retreat, in a dense  thicket, found the two cousins, and asked them, "What are you two  quarrelling about now?"

Neither Jasper Jay nor Mr. Crow was noted for his gentlemanly manners.  They both tried to explain at the same time. And it made the Hermit  wince to listen to their loud, harsh voices. He was himself a quiet  bird; his voice was very sweet.

"There's only one way to settle your dispute," the Hermit said when the  two cousins had succeeded in making their trouble clear. "You must  arrange a race between this Bobolink person and Benjamin Bat."

"Impossible! You don't know what you're talking about!" Jasper Jay and  Mr. Crow both cried at the same time.

The Hermit shuddered. He was not accustomed to such language. It hurt  his gentle nature to be spoken to like that. But he managed to stay  there while the cousins told him that such a race as he had suggested  couldn't be arranged, because Benjamin Bat was always asleep in the  daytime, and Bobby Bobolink took his rest at night. The two could  never meet.

"Perhaps," said the Hermit, "I could persuade Benjamin Bat to change his  habits for once. Maybe he would be willing to stay awake some day, just  to oblige me."

"Bobby Bobolink is an obliging fellow," Jasper Jay remarked. "Why don't  you ask him to stay awake some night?"

But the Hermit said that that wouldn't suit him at all. "The Bobolink  person would be sure to sing his most boisterous song," he said, "and it  would wake me up and spoil my night's sleep. Let me speak to Benjamin  Bat!" he urged the two cousins.

And in the end they let him have his way.
