A Peep at the World (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  WHAT is the earliest thing you can remember? Master Meadow Mouse's  earliest memory was of lying in a soft nest of dried grasses. Sometimes  the nest was in inky darkness; and then it was night. Sometimes a shaft  of light fell upon the nest through a round hole just above his head;  and then it was daytime.

That round hole went upwards--straight upwards--for about a foot. And  when Master Meadow Mouse looked through it he could see, on pleasant  days, a patch of brilliant blue, which was a bit of sky.

One day a desire seized him to touch that round blue spot. So when his  mother was away he crawled up through the hole. But when he reached the  other end of it he found, to his great surprise, that the blue disk was  ever so much bigger than he had thought it, and seemed further away than  it had when he gazed at it through the round tunnel.

All this was very puzzling. And he stood in the meadow near the mouth of  the tunnel, peering around and wondering what this, that and the other  strange thing might be. For he saw many wonderful new sights.

If his mother hadn't come home and found him out of the nest there's no  telling what would have happened to him.

"Get back!" she cried, pushing him towards the mouth of the  tunnel--their doorway. "It's a mercy Henry Hawk hasn't spied you."

Master Meadow Mouse hung back. He didn't want to be hurried away from  the new world that he had just discovered.

"I don't see Henry Hawk," he squeaked.

Mrs. Meadow Mouse gave a sort of grunt.

"Humph! You wouldn't know him if you saw him," she retorted. "Besides,  he could see you long before you could see him, for his eyes are  wonderfully keen." Then she gave her son a poke that sent him into the  tunnel and bouncing down upon the soft nest at the bottom of it. "You  stay there until I come home again!" she called. "Do you want to go  where your two brothers and your three sisters went?"

Mrs. Meadow Mouse did not wait for her son's answer. She went off again  and left him to ponder over her question.

Master Meadow Mouse decided to mind his mother. Although he didn't know  what had become of his squirming companions, who had already begun to  crowd the nest, somehow his mother's query carried something of a  threat. He wondered if the mysterious Henry Hawk had had anything to do  with the vanishing of the rest of the children.

Master Meadow Mouse proved to be a hearty eater. And since he no longer  had to share with others the food that his mother brought home to him,  he grew fast. It wasn't long before Mrs. Meadow Mouse took him above  ground with her and let him play near home.

She taught him many things--how to find ripe seeds to eat, how to keep  still as a mouse and not squeak when there was danger of any kind, and  how to dodge into their tunnel when there was need.

Little by little Master Meadow Mouse wandered further from his own  dooryard. And he began to think that his mother was too careful. There  seemed to be no need of heeding all her warnings.

Then came the day when he met the kitten from the farmhouse.

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
