A PIG IN THE PARLOR (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Grunty Pig had got out of his pen and out of the piggery, too. Ever  since his talk with Moses Mouse the day before he had been hoping for a  chance to escape. And shuffling across the farmyard somewhat  heavily--for he was growing longer and taller and fatter every  day--Grunty went straight to the woodshed door. It was open. And he  walked through it. Then he clattered over the woodshed floor and peered  into the kitchen. There was no one there.

For a few moments Grunty stood sniffing in the doorway. A delicious  odor greeted him. He wasn't sure what it was. A pan sat near the edge  of the table. And Grunty Pig had no trouble upsetting it with his nose.

Doughnuts rolled in every direction--crisp, brown, freshly fried  doughnuts. And Grunty Pig showed that he was thoughtful. He went to the  trouble of picking them all up off the floor. But he forgot to drop them  back into the pan. Instead, he put every one of them into his own mouth.

"That Moses Mouse was all wrong," he murmured. "He complained of the  food here. When I see him I'll have to tell him that he was mistaken.  Why, I never ate anything that tasted better than these rings!"

After making sure that there was nothing else for him to devour in the  kitchen Grunty Pig pushed through a door that stood ajar. He found  himself in a long, dimly lighted hall. There were doors on both sides of  it. Grunty nosed around each one in turn. Not till he came to the last  of all, at the further end of the hall, did he find one that wasn't shut  tight. This door yielded to a little gentle pushing. And Grunty then  found himself--though he did not know it--in the parlor of the  farmhouse.

As he stood still and gazed about him, who should come stealing into the  room but Moses Mouse.

"Ah!" said Moses in a whisper. "So you've arrived at last?"

"Yes!" said Grunty Pig. "Isn't this a fine pen? Now that I've come to  the farmhouse to live I believe I'll make this pen my headquarters."

"That's a good idea," Moses Mouse told him. "Farmer Green's family don't  use it often. They seldom come here unless they have company."

While he listened, Grunty Pig sidled up to a table in the center of the  room and began, in an absent-minded fashion, to rub his back against it.  To his surprise, the table tipped over and a lamp that had stood upon it  crashed into a hundred pieces on the floor. Then a door slammed  somewhere. And steps sounded in the hall.

Moses Mouse tried not to look startled.

"I must be going now," he said abruptly. "I'll see you later." Then he  dashed into the fireplace and ran up the chimney.

"The accident was really your fault," Grunty called to him. "If you  hadn't talked so much I'd have noticed what I was doing."

Moses Mouse, however, did not reply. And a moment later Farmer Green's  wife appeared in the doorway. When she saw Grunty Pig she gave a scream.  Mrs. Green couldn't help being surprised at first. But soon she began to  laugh as if she would never stop.

"A pig in our parlor!" she cried. "Who ever would have thought it?"

Grunty Pig tried to explain that the broken lamp was really Moses  Mouse's fault. But Mrs. Green wouldn't listen. She ran out of the room  and came back at once with a broom in her hand. Then, opening the front  door, she drove Grunty Pig into the yard.

"Now, I wonder why Mrs. Green put me out of the farmhouse," he muttered.

Suddenly an idea popped into his head. "It must be," he cried, "because  I told tales. I tattled on Moses Mouse; and Mrs. Green didn't like it.  Next time I'll be careful about what I say to her."

There never was a next time. Perhaps Farmer Green took pains to keep the  door of Grunty's pen shut. Perhaps Farmer Green made the fence outside  the piggery "hog tight," as he would say. Or perhaps Grunty Pig grew so  fat that he couldn't squeeze through any ordinary opening.

Anyhow, Grunty never set foot inside the farmhouse again. After a while  he didn't care. The bigger he was, the less he liked to roam about. And  at last Farmer Green began calling him his "prize hog."

So you can see how very fat he must have been.

  THE END
