A PLUNGE IN THE DARK (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  There was one hole, especially, among those he found in Farmer Green's  pasture, from which Dickie Deer Mouse ran as fast as he could scamper.

This was a hole with a big front door, and plenty of fresh dirt  scattered around it, as if somebody had been digging there not long  before.

When Dickie first noticed the burrow he stopped short and stood quite  still, while he peeped at it out of a tangle of blackberry bushes.

Something told him that he had stumbled upon the home of a dangerous  person. And if the wind hadn't been blowing in his face, as he looked  towards the wide opening, he would not have dared stay there as long as  he did.

As he looked he suddenly saw a pair of eyes gleaming from the dark  cavern. And soon he beheld a long, pointed snout, which its owner thrust  outside in a gingerly manner.

That was enough for Dickie Deer Mouse.

He wheeled about and whisked up the nearest tree he could find. And  there he stayed for a long, long time, until he felt sure that it was  quite safe for him to venture down upon the ground again.

He had come upon Tommy Fox's burrow!

And if there was one hole in the ground into which he had no wish to  go, that was it. For Tommy Fox was no friend of his.

Since he didn't care for Tommy's company, Dickie went to the corner of  the pasture that was furthest from Tommy's home, to search once more for  such a hole as he hoped to find.

Almost nobody else ever would have discovered the one that Dickie picked  out at last as the best place of all in which to spend the winter. But  the bright eyes of Dickie Deer Mouse found a tiny opening, which he  carefully made just big enough to admit him.

It was the entrance to an old burrow where an aunt and an uncle of Billy  Woodchuck had once lived and raised a numerous family. When the children  had all grown up and gone away their parents had left that home for a  new one in the clover field. And somehow all the smaller field people  had overlooked it.

Little by little the frost had heaved the earth about the doorway, and  the wash of the rains had helped to fill it, and Farmer Green's cows had  trampled over it, and the grass had all but covered the small opening  that remained.

There were signs in plenty about the spot that told Dickie Deer Mouse  the burrow was deserted. Or perhaps it would be better to say that there  was no sign at all of any occupant. Dickie found not a trace of a path  nor even a foot-print near the hole nor did his nose discover the  faintest scent either of friend or enemy.

Slipping inside the hole, Dickie found himself in the mouth of a big,  airy tunnel, which went sharply downwards for a few feet.

And without the slightest fear he plunged down the dark hole, to see  what he could see.

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
