A PLEASANT HOME (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Now, Rusty Wren had found--and shown to his wife--a hollow apple  tree and a hole in a fence-rail, either of which he thought would  make a pleasant place in which to live.

But since the little couple were _house wrens_, Rusty's wife said  she thought that they oughtn't to be so far from the farmhouse.

"Why not build our nest behind one of the shutters?" she  suggested.

But Rusty shook his head quickly--and with decision.

"That won't do," said he. "Somebody might come to the window and  close the shutter; and then our nest would fall to the ground. And  if we happened to have six or eight eggs in it, you know you  wouldn't like that very well."

Rusty's wife agreed with him on that point. But she still insisted  that she wanted to live near the farmhouse; and she said that she  expected her husband to find a good spot for their nest, for she  certainly wasn't going to spend the summer in a hole in a  fence-rail, or in an old apple tree, either.

Rusty Wren saw at once that there was no sense in arguing with her.  If he wanted any peace, he knew that he might as well forget the  old hollow apple tree and the hole in the fence-rail too. He had  better forget them and resume his search for a home. So he gave  his plump little cinnamon-colored body a shake and held his tail at  even a higher angle than usual, just to show people that he was  going to be the head of the house--when they should have one. Then  with a flirt of his short, round wings he hurried over to Farmer  Green's dooryard--after calling to his wife that he would come back  and tell her if he had any luck.

Rusty Wren spent some busy moments about Farmer Green's buildings.  And since he loved to be busy and was never so happy as when he had  something important to do, he hopped and climbed and fluttered to  his heart's content, looking into a hundred different holes and  cracks and crannies.

But he didn't find a single one that suited him. Every place into  which he peered was either too big or too little, or too high or  too low; or it was where the rain would beat upon it; or maybe it  was so situated that the cat could thrust her paw inside. Anyhow,  every possible nook for a nest had some drawback. And Rusty was  wondering what he could say to his wife, who was sure to be upset  if her plans went wrong, when all at once he came upon the finest  place for a house that he had ever seen. One quick look through the  small round opening that led to it was enough.

He knew right away that his search was ended. So he hurried back to  the orchard to find Mrs. Rusty and tell her the good news.

"I've found the best spot for a house in all Pleasant Valley!" he  cried, as he dropped down beside her and hopped about in his  excitement.

"Is it in a good neighborhood?" she inquired calmly.

"Yes, indeed!" he replied. "It's in a tree close to Farmer Green's  bedroom window."

"A hole in a tree!" she exclaimed somewhat doubtfully. "Not an old  squirrel's nest, I hope?"

"No, no!" he assured her. "It's not really _in_ a tree. It's nailed  to a tree. Come with me and I'll show you."

At that the bustling little pair hastened toward the farmhouse.  And, to Rusty's delight, the moment his wife saw what he had found  she said at once that it was exactly the sort of house she had  always hoped to have, some time.
