A PLEASURE TRIP (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Almost always the wild folk in Pleasant Valley knew that if they wanted  to see Timothy Turtle they could find him somewhere in Black Creek. But  once in a great while he liked to go on what he called "an excursion."  By that he meant a pleasure trip to some spot not too far away--never  outside of Pleasant Valley.

Nobody meeting Timothy Turtle on one of those journeys would have  suspected that he was bent on pleasure. Or at least, nobody would have  supposed that Mr. Turtle had found what he was looking for. Certainly if  he was hunting for fun, he never looked as if he had discovered any.  For no smile showed itself upon his face. Instead, he met every one with  a frown. And if a body gave him a cheery "Good morning," just as likely  as not Timothy would answer with a grunt, and pass on.

Naturally, when Timothy Turtle arrived anywhere and told people that he  expected to spend a few days among them they did not feel any great joy  at the news. On the contrary, they were quite likely to say to one  another, "I hope he won't stop long," or "He looks more grumpy than  ever." And some would even remark that they wished Timothy Turtle would  go home and stay there.

So no one of the Beaver colony was glad when Timothy appeared in their  pond one day and explained that he intended to be in the neighborhood at  least a week. In the first place, the Beavers, as a whole, were a busy,  cheerful family, who did not like disagreeable folk for company. And in  the second place, they were spry workers; and they had little use for  anybody as slow as Timothy Turtle, who never did any work at all.

It is no wonder, then, that as soon as the news of Timothy's coming  spread up and down and across the pond, the busy Beavers stopped their  work and said things about the crusty outsider who had forced himself  upon them. And almost everybody went to call upon Grandaddy Beaver and  asked him what he thought ought to be done.

Now, Grandaddy was a good old soul. And he told the hot-headed younger  members of the colony to keep cool, which seems a simple thing for them  to have done, swimming about as they were in the icy water, which  flowed down from springs on the side of Blue Mountain.

"Timothy Turtle has been here before," Grandaddy Beaver announced. "I  can remember my great-grandfather's telling me about his passing two  whole weeks in our pond. And though everybody wished he would leave, he  never harmed anybody, because people kept out of his way."

"Well, he ought to work while he's here," said a brisk gentleman,  tugging at his moustache.

"Timothy Turtle will never lift his hand to do a single stroke of work,"  said old Grandaddy Beaver. "He has already spent a long life without  working. And he'll be lazy if he lives to be a hundred years old--or  even a hundred and fifty."

Now, a young chap called Brownie Beaver heard all this, as he stood in  Grandaddy's doorway and peeped inside the house. And he thought it was  a shame that _somebody_ couldn't make Timothy Turtle mend his ways. To  Brownie Bearer it seemed that Timothy Turtle was old enough to behave  himself.
