A PROUD PERSON (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  The peacock in front of the farmhouse paid no heed to Turkey Proudfoot,  but moved very slowly and very haughtily about the lawn. His huge tail  was spread like a sail. In the light summer breeze it swayed and  rippled, sending out a thousand shimmering gleams. And on his tail were  dozens of eyes. At least they looked like eyes to Turkey Proudfoot. And  they all seemed to be trying to out-stare him.

For a minute or two Turkey Proudfoot glared at this newcomer--this new  pet of Johnnie Green's. Then, after first spreading his own tail to its  fullest size, he swaggered up to the peacock.

"You needn't pretend not to see me," Turkey Proudfoot gobbled. "You  can't fool me. You've a hundred eyes on your tail. And they've been  looking at me steadily."

The peacock calmly turned his head and glanced at Turkey Proudfoot. He  did not answer.

Turkey Proudfoot thrust his own head forward.

"Maybe I'm not good enough for you to speak to," he began. "Maybe I'm  not enough of a dandy--"

Just then somebody interrupted him. It was Henrietta Hen. Being a prying  sort of person she had followed Turkey Proudfoot around the house to see  what happened when he and the newcomer met.

"Don't be rude to this gentleman," said Henrietta Hen. "He hasn't  spoken since he arrived in the wagon an hour ago. We've about decided  that he is dumb. And it's a great pity if he is. No doubt his voice--if  he had one--would be as beautiful as his tail."

At that the peacock opened his mouth. Out of it there came the harshest  sounds that had ever been heard on the farm. Turkey Proudfoot was so  startled that he threw his head into the air and took several steps  backward. As for Henrietta Hen, she cackled in terror and ran out of the  yard and crossed the road, where she narrowly escaped being run over by  a passing wagon.

"My goodness!" Turkey Proudfoot thought. "It's no wonder this Peacock  doesn't talk much. If I had a voice like his I'd never use it." He  didn't know what the peacock had said. Somehow his voice was so awful  that Turkey Proudfoot had caught no actual words that meant anything to  him.

Again the peacock screamed. Henrietta Hen heard him. And she was so  flustered that she ran back and forth across the road three times and  was almost trampled on by a horse.

At last Turkey Proudfoot understood what the peacock said. "Are you a  barnyard fowl?" he had asked.

"Yes, I am," said Turkey Proudfoot. "Aren't you?"

"No!" the peacock replied. "My place is out here in front of the house  where people can see me when they drive by.... Probably," he added, "we  shan't see much of each other."

So saying, he walked stiffly away and mounted the stone wall, where  passing travellers would be sure to notice him and admire his beauty.

All this was a terrible blow to Turkey Proudfoot. For a moment he was  tempted to rush at the haughty stranger and tear his handsome feathers  into tatters. But the peacock looked so huge, standing on top of the  wall with his great tail rising above him, and his voice was so  frightfully loud and harsh, that Turkey Proudfoot didn't even dare  threaten him. And that was something unusual for one who had long  claimed to be ruler of the farmyard.
