A QUEER TOADSTOOL (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Mr. Crow did exactly as he said he would. After the time he was caught  out in the shower and got wet he never went even the shortest distance  away from home without his umbrella. And he wouldn't even let anybody  take his umbrella, in order to look at it.

"It might rain suddenly," Mr. Crow explained. "I might be soaked before  I knew it--and you know that's very dangerous for one of my age."

It was not many days before there was another thunder-shower. And this  time Mr. Crow was ready for it. As soon as he felt the first drops he  spread his umbrella and raised it above his head. At last he was very,  very happy. For the first time in his life he was going to see what it  was like to stay out in the rain without getting wet.

Now, it hadn't rained long before Jasper Jay came hurrying up to Mr.  Crow, where he sat on Farmer Green's fence, and crawled under the  umbrella close beside the old gentleman.

"You don't mind, I hope?" said Jasper Jay.

"Well--n-no!" said Mr. Crow. "It's a big umbrella, fortunately. But I  hope no one else comes along."

The words were hardly out of his bill when Mr. Crow noticed a slim, gray  fellow, with a bushy tail, bounding toward them on top of the fence.

It was Frisky Squirrel. And he crept close to Mr. Crow, under the  umbrella, saying:

"You don't mind, I hope?"

"N-no!" replied Mr. Crow. With Frisky on one side of him and Jasper Jay  on the other Mr. Crow thought that maybe he could keep drier because they  were there. But he hoped no one else would pass that way.

Well, some one did. Before Mr. Crow knew what had happened, a voice  said--right over his shoulder:

"You don't mind, I hope?"

It was Fatty Coon! And Mr. Crow certainly did mind--though he didn't dare  say so. In the first place, Mr. Crow was afraid of Fatty Coon. And in the  second place, Fatty was so big that he crowded Mr. Crow almost off the  fence.

Old Mr. Crow found it very hard to hold the umbrella straight and cling  to the fence-rail at the same time. And something seemed to have made the  umbrella very heavy. In spite of all he could do, it would tilt. And Mr.  Crow crouched under the edge of it, right where the rain poured off. The  water dripped inside his collar and ran down his back until he was soaked  through and through.

Pretty soon Mr. Crow began to sneeze. At first he sneezed quite softly.  But every time it happened he sneezed harder than the time before. And at  last he sneezed so violently that he lost his hold on the fence and went  tumbling down to the ground, with the umbrella, Jasper Jay, Fatty Coon  and Frisky Squirrel on top of him.

As they fell, a huge, long-legged fellow named Christopher Crane alighted  on the fence, on the very spot where they had been sitting, and laughed  loudly at them.

"What's the joke?" Mr. Crow asked in an angry voice, as he picked himself  up. "I don't see anything to laugh at."

"Joke?" said Christopher Crane. "The joke's on me. I thought that thing  you have in your hand was a new kind of toadstool, growing on the fence.  And here I've been sitting on it all this time and never knew you chaps  were under it!"

At that, everybody except Mr. Crow began to laugh, too. But Mr. Crow  coughed; and his voice was hoarser than, ever as he said to Christopher  Crane:

"I'm wet as I can be. And I've caught a terrible cold. You're a  water-bird; and you don't mind a wetting. But for one of my age it's  very dangerous."

Then he started homeward. Though it was still raining, he tucked his  umbrella under his wing, for he was afraid those rude fellows would crowd  under it again.

And before he had reached his house Mr. Crow had made up his mind about  something.
