A QUEER OLD PERSON (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  THERE was a queer old person that lived in Farmer Green's garden. Nobody  knew exactly how long he had made his home there because his neighbors  seldom saw him. He might have been in the garden a whole summer before  anybody set eyes on him.

Those that were acquainted with him called him Grandfather Mole. And the  reason why his friends didn't meet him oftener was because he spent  most of his time underground. Grandfather Mole's house was in a mound at  one end of the garden. He had made the house himself, for he was a great  digger. And Mr. Meadow Mouse often remarked that it had more halls than  any other dwelling he had ever seen. He had visited it when Grandfather  Mole was away from home, so he knew what it was like.

Some of those halls that Mr. Meadow Mouse mentioned ran right out  beneath the surface of the garden. Grandfather Mole had dug them for a  certain purpose. Through them he made his way in the darkness, whenever  he was hungry (which was most of the time, for he had a huge appetite!).  And when he took an underground stroll he was almost sure to find a few  angleworms, which furnished most of his meals.

To be sure, he did not despise a grub--if he happened to meet one--nor a  cutworm nor a wire-worm.

The wonder of it was that Grandfather Mole ever found anything to eat,  for the old gentleman was all but blind. The only good Grandfather  Mole's eyes did him was to let him tell darkness from light. They were  so small that his neighbors claimed he hadn't any at all.

Another odd thing about this odd person was his ears. The neighbors said  they couldn't see them, either. But they were in his head, even if they  didn't show. And Grandfather Mole himself sometimes remarked that he  didn't know how he could have burrowed as he did if he had been forever  getting dirt in his eyes and ears. He seemed quite satisfied to be just  as he was.

And he used to say that he didn't know what good eyes were to anyone  whether he was under the ground or on top of it!

Liking to dig as he did, he certainly had nothing to complain about. His  long nose was as good as a drill. And his front legs were just long  enough so that he could reach his large, spade-like feet beyond his nose  and throw the dirt back. His fur lay in one direction as easily as in  another, never troubling him in the least when he was boring his way  through the dry, loose soil of Farmer Green's garden.

So in spite of what might seem great drawbacks to others, Grandfather  Mole was contented with his lot. The only thing he was ever known to  grumble about was the scarcity of angleworms.
