A queen of hearts (Fiction Ages 5 to 10)

I wakened shortly after sunrise. The pale May sunshine was showering  through the spruces, and a chill, inspiring wind was tossing the boughs  about.

"Felix, wake up," I whispered, shaking him.

"What's the matter?" he murmured reluctantly.

"It's morning. Let's get up and go down and out. I can't wait another  minute to see the places father has told us of."

We slipped out of bed and dressed, without arousing Dan, who was still  slumbering soundly, his mouth wide open, and his bed-clothes kicked off  on the floor. I had hard work to keep Felix from trying to see if he  could "shy" a marble into that tempting open mouth. I told him it would  waken Dan, who would then likely insist on getting up and accompanying  us, and it would be so much nicer to go by ourselves for the first time.

Everything was very still as we crept downstairs. Out in the kitchen we  heard some one, presumably Uncle Alec, lighting the fire; but the heart  of house had not yet begun to beat for the day.

We paused a moment in the hall to look at the big "Grandfather" clock.  It was not going, but it seemed like an old, familiar acquaintance to  us, with the gilt balls on its three peaks; the little dial and pointer  which would indicate the changes of the moon, and the very dent in its  wooden door which father had made when he was a boy, by kicking it in a  fit of naughtiness.

Then we opened the front door and stepped out, rapture swelling in our  bosoms. There was a rare breeze from the south blowing to meet us; the  shadows of the spruces were long and clear-cut; the exquisite skies of  early morning, blue and wind-winnowed, were over us; away to the west,  beyond the brook field, was a long valley and a hill purple with firs  and laced with still leafless beeches and maples.

Behind the house was a grove of fir and spruce, a dim, cool place where  the winds were fond of purring and where there was always a resinous,  woodsy odour. On the further side of it was a thick plantation of  slender silver birches and whispering poplars; and beyond it was Uncle  Roger's house.

Right before us, girt about with its trim spruce hedge, was the  famous King orchard, the history of which was woven into our earliest  recollections. We knew all about it, from father's descriptions, and in  fancy we had roamed in it many a time and oft.

It was now nearly sixty years since it had had its beginning, when  Grandfather King brought his bride home. Before the wedding he had  fenced off the big south meadow that sloped to the sun; it was the  finest, most fertile field on the farm, and the neighbours told young  Abraham King that he would raise many a fine crop of wheat in that  meadow. Abraham King smiled and, being a man of few words, said nothing;  but in his mind he had a vision of the years to be, and in that vision  he saw, not rippling acres of harvest gold, but great, leafy avenues of  wide-spreading trees laden with fruit to gladden the eyes of children  and grandchildren yet unborn.

It was a vision to develop slowly into fulfilment. Grandfather King was  in no hurry. He did not set his whole orchard out at once, for he wished  it to grow with his life and history, and be bound up with all of good  and joy that should come to his household. So the morning after he had  brought his young wife home they went together to the south meadow and  planted their bridal trees. These trees were no longer living; but they  had been when father was a boy, and every spring bedecked themselves in  blossom as delicately tinted as Elizabeth King's face when she walked  through the old south meadow in the morn of her life and love.

When a son was born to Abraham and Elizabeth a tree was planted in the  orchard for him. They had fourteen children in all, and each child  had its "birth tree." Every family festival was commemorated in like  fashion, and every beloved visitor who spent a night under their roof  was expected to plant a tree in the orchard. So it came to pass that  every tree in it was a fair green monument to some love or delight of  the vanished years. And each grandchild had its tree, there, also, set  out by grandfather when the tidings of its birth reached him; not always  an apple tree--perhaps it was a plum, or cherry or pear. But it was  always known by the name of the person for whom, or by whom, it was  planted; and Felix and I knew as much about "Aunt Felicity's pears," and  "Aunt Julia's cherries," and "Uncle Alec's apples," and the "Rev. Mr.  Scott's plums," as if we had been born and bred among them.

And now we had come to the orchard; it was before us; we had only  to open that little whitewashed gate in the hedge and we might find  ourselves in its storied domain. But before we reached the gate we  glanced to our left, along the grassy, spruce-bordered lane which led  over to Uncle Roger's; and at the entrance of that lane we saw a girl  standing, with a gray cat at her feet. She lifted her hand and beckoned  blithely to us; and, the orchard forgotten, we followed her summons. For  we knew that this must be the Story Girl; and in that gay and graceful  gesture was an allurement not to be gainsaid or denied.

We looked at her as we drew near with such interest that we forgot to  feel shy. No, she was not pretty. She was tall for her fourteen years,  slim and straight; around her long, white face--rather too long and too  white--fell sleek, dark-brown curls, tied above either ear with rosettes  of scarlet ribbon. Her large, curving mouth was as red as a poppy, and  she had brilliant, almond-shaped, hazel eyes; but we did not think her  pretty.

Then she spoke; she said,

"Good morning."

Never had we heard a voice like hers. Never, in all my life since, have  I heard such a voice. I cannot describe it. I might say it was clear; I  might say it was sweet; I might say it was vibrant and far-reaching and  bell-like; all this would be true, but it would give you no real idea of  the peculiar quality which made the Story Girl's voice what it was.

If voices had colour, hers would have been like a rainbow. It made words  LIVE. Whatever she said became a breathing entity, not a mere verbal  statement or utterance. Felix and I were too young to understand or  analyze the impression it made upon us; but we instantly felt at her  greeting that it WAS a good morning--a surpassingly good morning--the  very best morning that had ever happened in this most excellent of  worlds.

"You are Felix and Beverley," she went on, shaking our hands with an air  of frank comradeship, which was very different from the shy, feminine  advances of Felicity and Cecily. From that moment we were as good  friends as if we had known each other for a hundred years. "I am glad to  see you. I was so disappointed I couldn't go over last night. I got up  early this morning, though, for I felt sure you would be up early, too,  and that you'd like to have me tell you about things. I can tell things  so much better than Felicity or Cecily. Do you think Felicity is VERY  pretty?"

"She's the prettiest girl I ever saw," I said enthusiastically,  remembering that Felicity had called me handsome.

"The boys all think so," said the Story Girl, not, I fancied, quite well  pleased. "And I suppose she is. She is a splendid cook, too, though she  is only twelve. I can't cook. I am trying to learn, but I don't make  much progress. Aunt Olivia says I haven't enough natural gumption ever  to be a cook; but I'd love to be able to make as good cakes and pies as  Felicity can make. But then, Felicity is stupid. It's not ill-natured  of me to say that. It's just the truth, and you'd soon find it out for  yourselves. I like Felicity very well, but she IS stupid. Cecily is ever  so much cleverer. Cecily's a dear. So is Uncle Alec; and Aunt Janet is  pretty nice, too."

"What is Aunt Olivia like?" asked Felix.

"Aunt Olivia is very pretty. She is just like a pansy--all velvety and  purply and goldy."

Felix and I SAW, somewhere inside of our heads, a velvet and purple and  gold pansy-woman, just as the Story Girl spoke.

"But is she NICE?" I asked. That was the main question about grown-ups.  Their looks mattered little to us.

"She is lovely. But she is twenty-nine, you know. That's pretty old. She  doesn't bother me much. Aunt Janet says that I'd have no bringing up at  all, if it wasn't for her. Aunt Olivia says children should just be let  COME up--that everything else is settled for them long before they are  born. I don't understand that. Do you?"

No, we did not. But it was our experience that grown-ups had a habit of  saying things hard to understand.

"What is Uncle Roger like?" was our next question.

"Well, I like Uncle Roger," said the Story Girl meditatively. "He is big  and jolly. But he teases people too much. You ask him a serious question  and you get a ridiculous answer. He hardly ever scolds or gets cross,  though, and THAT is something. He is an old bachelor."

"Doesn't he ever mean to get married?" asked Felix.

"I don't know. Aunt Olivia wishes he would, because she's tired keeping  house for him, and she wants to go to Aunt Julia in California. But she  says he'll never get married, because he is looking for perfection, and  when he finds her she won't have HIM."

By this time we were all sitting down on the gnarled roots of the  spruces, and the big gray cat came over and made friends with us. He was  a lordly animal, with a silver-gray coat beautifully marked with darker  stripes. With such colouring most cats would have had white or silver  feet; but he had four black paws and a black nose. Such points gave him  an air of distinction, and marked him out as quite different from the  common or garden variety of cats. He seemed to be a cat with a tolerably  good opinion of himself, and his response to our advances was slightly  tinged with condescension.

"This isn't Topsy, is it?" I asked. I knew at once that the question was  a foolish one. Topsy, the cat of which father had talked, had flourished  thirty years before, and all her nine lives could scarcely have lasted  so long.

"No, but it is Topsy's great-great-great-great-grandson," said the Story  Girl gravely. "His name is Paddy and he is my own particular cat. We  have barn cats, but Paddy never associates with them. I am very good  friends with all cats. They are so sleek and comfortable and dignified.  And it is so easy to make them happy. Oh, I'm so glad you boys have come  to live here. Nothing ever happens here, except days, so we have to make  our own good times. We were short of boys before--only Dan and Peter to  four girls."

"FOUR girls? Oh, yes, Sara Ray. Felicity mentioned her. What is she  like? Where does she live?"

"Just down the hill. You can't see the house for the spruce bush. Sara  is a nice girl. She's only eleven, and her mother is dreadfully strict.  She never allows Sara to read a single story. JUST you fancy! Sara's  conscience is always troubling her for doing things she's sure her  mother won't approve, but it never prevents her from doing them. It  only spoils her fun. Uncle Roger says that a mother who won't let you do  anything, and a conscience that won't let you enjoy anything is an awful  combination, and he doesn't wonder Sara is pale and thin and nervous.  But, between you and me, I believe the real reason is that her mother  doesn't give her half enough to eat. Not that she's mean, you know--but  she thinks it isn't healthy for children to eat much, or anything but  certain things. Isn't it fortunate we weren't born into that sort of a  family?"

"I think it's awfully lucky we were all born into the same family,"  Felix remarked.

"Isn't it? I've often thought so. And I've often thought what a dreadful  thing it would have been if Grandfather and Grandmother King had never  got married to each other. I don't suppose there would have been a  single one of us children here at all; or if we were, we would be part  somebody else and that would be almost as bad. When I think it all over  I can't feel too thankful that Grandfather and Grandmother King happened  to marry each other, when there were so many other people they might  have married."

Felix and I shivered. We felt suddenly that we had escaped a dreadful  danger--the danger of having been born somebody else. But it took  the Story Girl to make us realize just how dreadful it was and what a  terrible risk we had run years before we, or our parents either, had  existed.

"Who lives over there?" I asked, pointing to a house across the fields.

"Oh, that belongs to the Awkward Man. His name is Jasper Dale, but  everybody calls him the Awkward Man. And they do say he writes poetry.  He calls his place Golden Milestone. I know why, because I've read  Longfellow's poems. He never goes into society because he is so awkward.  The girls laugh at him and he doesn't like it. I know a story about him  and I'll tell it to you sometime."

"And who lives in that other house?" asked Felix, looking over the  westering valley where a little gray roof was visible among the trees.

"Old Peg Bowen. She's very queer. She lives there with a lot of pet  animals in winter, and in summer she roams over the country and begs her  meals. They say she is crazy. People have always tried to frighten us  children into good behaviour by telling us that Peg Bowen would catch us  if we didn't behave. I'm not so frightened of her as I once was, but  I don't think I would like to be caught by her. Sara Ray is dreadfully  scared of her. Peter Craig says she is a witch and that he bets she's at  the bottom of it when the butter won't come. But I don't believe THAT.  Witches are so scarce nowadays. There may be some somewhere in the  world, but it's not likely there are any here right in Prince Edward  Island. They used to be very plenty long ago. I know some splendid witch  stories I'll tell you some day. They'll just make your blood freeze in  your veins."

We hadn't a doubt of it. If anybody could freeze the blood in our veins  this girl with the wonderful voice could. But it was a May morning, and  our young blood was running blithely in our veins. We suggested a visit  to the orchard would be more agreeable.

"All right. I know stories about it, too," she said, as we walked across  the yard, followed by Paddy of the waving tail. "Oh, aren't you glad it  is spring? The beauty of winter is that it makes you appreciate spring."

The latch of the gate clicked under the Story Girl's hand, and the next  moment we were in the King orchard.
