A QUEER PLACE TO LIVE (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

The village near one end of Pleasant Valley where Farmer Green oftenwent to sell butter and eggs was not the only village to be seen fromBlue Mountain. There was another which Farmer Green seldom visited,because it lay beyond the mountain and was a long distance from hishouse. Though he owned the land where it stood, those that lived therethought they had every right to stay there as long as they pleased,without being disturbed.

It was in this village that Brownie Beaver and his neighbors lived. Itwas a different sort of town, too, from the one where Farmer Greenwent each week. Over beyond Blue Mountain all the houses were built ina pond. And all their doors were under water. But nobody minded thatbecause--like Brownie Beaver--everybody that dwelt there was a fineswimmer.

Years and years before Brownie's time his forefathers had come there,and finding that there were many trees in the neighborhood with thesort of bark they liked to eat--such as poplars, willows and boxelders--they had decided that it was a good place to live. There was asmall stream, too, which was really the beginning of Swift River. Andby damming it those old settlers made a pond in which they could buildtheir houses.

They had ideas of their own as to what a house should be like--andvery good ideas they were--though you, perhaps, might not care forthem at all. They wanted their houses to be surrounded by water,because they thought they were safer when built in that manner. Andthey always insisted that a door leading into a house should be farbeneath the surface of the water, for they believed that that made ahouse safer too.

To you such an idea may seem very strange. But if you were chased byan enemy you might be glad to be able to swim under water, down to thebottom of a pond, and slip inside a door which led to a winding hall,which in its turn led upwards into your house.

Of course, your enemy might be able to swim as well as you. But maybehe would think twice--or even three times--before he went prowlingthrough your crooked hall. For if you had enormous, strong, sharpteeth--with which you could gnaw right through a tree--he would notcare to have you seize him as he poked his head around a corner in adark passage of a strange house.

It was in a house of that kind that Brownie Beaver lived. And he builtit himself, because he said he would rather have a neat, new housethan one of the big, old dwellings that had been built many yearsbefore, when his great-great-grandfather had helped throw the damacross the stream.

The dam was there still. It was so old that trees were growing on it.And there was an odd thing about it: it was never finished. ThoughBrownie Beaver was a young chap, he worked on the dam sometimes, likeall his neighbors. You see, the villagers kept making the dam wider.And since it was built of sticks and mud, the water sometimes washedbits of it away: so it had to be kept in repair.

If Brownie Beaver and his friends had neglected their dam, they wouldhave waked up some day and found that their pond was empty; andwithout any water to hide their doorways they would have been safe nolonger.

They would have had no place, either, to store their winter's food.For they were in the habit of cutting down trees and saving the barkand branches too, in order to have plenty to eat when cold weathercame and the ice closed their pond.

Some of their food they carried into their houses through a straighthall which was made for that very purpose. And some of the branchesthey fastened under water, near the dam. It was just like puttinggreen things into a refrigerator, so they will keep.

Now you see why Brownie Beaver would no more have thought of buildinghis house on dry land than you would think of building one in a pond.Everybody likes his own way best. And it never once occurred toBrownie Beaver that his way was the least bit strange.

Perhaps it was because his family had always lived in that fashion.
