A QUEER DISCOVERY (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

No one would ever have called Benny Badger a great traveller. He wasaltogether too heavy to roam far from home upon his short legs. So itoften happened that he did not know all that went on in theneighborhood.

Of course, his watchful eyes took in almost everything that was in sightof his den. But as for what was taking place just beyond the next rise,that was an entirely different matter. Unless somebody chanced to stopand gossip with Benny, sometimes several days would pass before he knewwhat his neighbors were doing.

Luckily, Benny Badger kept his ears open, when he was awake.

And often he kept them half-open when he lay half-asleep, stretched outin the grass not too far from his den, enjoying a sun-bath.

One day when he was sunning himself the sound of voices snatched him outof his drowsiness. And he kept quite still, to see what he could see,and hear what he could hear.

Soon three coyotes came sneaking through the grass, talking in hushedvoices--a thing they seldom did. Benny could hardly believe his ownears, because he had supposed that if the coyote family spoke at all,they always howled.

But if the quietness of the coyotes surprised Benny, what they saidastonished him a great deal more. For Benny Badger learned that thethree cronies were headed for a prairie dog village just beyond thenext rise.

That was most amazing news. Benny Badger hadn't known that there was aprairie dog village so near his den. And for a moment he was tempted tocall to the coyotes and ask them if what they said was really true or ifthey were only fooling.

But he didn't think the three prowlers had seen him. So there seemed tobe no reason for their saying what wasn't so.

Well, the moment they disappeared, Benny Badger jumped up and hurriedinto his den. He would have followed the coyotes, but he decided itwould be better to wait. The prairie dogs would be too wary, with thosecoyotes in their village.

But later, after the coyotes had left--ah! then he would pay a visit tothe village himself.

Towards evening Benny Badger crept out of his den and followed the trailof the three coyotes. And sure enough! when he reached the top of therise he saw the mounds of the prairie dogs spread out before him.

Though he saw no prairie dogs, he noticed an owl sitting upon a heap ofearth that had been tossed out around a hole.

Benny Badger strolled up to the owl.

"It's a fine evening!" said Benny.

The owl merely stared at him, round-eyed, and made no reply.

"I say, it's a fine evening!" Benny repeated in a louder tone.

"Very well!" the owl replied. "You may say it as often as you wish. I'msure I have no objection. . . . But you don't need to come any nearer,"he added.

Benny Badger stopped and squatted in the grass. He was glad to rest, forhe was--as has been said--no great traveller.

"Is anybody at home?" he asked presently.

"Somebody is," said the owl.

"Then I'll dig right in as soon as I get my breath," said Benny Badger,glancing at the hole.

"Do you want to see somebody?" the owl asked. "For if you do, there's noneed of your doing any digging here."

"Why not?" Benny inquired.

"I'm somebody," the owl informed him. "I live here; and I'll bedisgusted if you go to tearing my house to pieces."
