A RIDE TO THE MILLER'S (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Do you know about the time Johnnie Green and his grandmother and Sandy  Chipmunk started for the miller's with a sack of wheat to be ground? If  you never heard the story, this is the way it happened--and if you _have_  heard it, it happened this way, just the same:

Farmer Green's wife had noticed that the flour in her flour-barrel was  getting low. So one morning Farmer Green pulled a wagon from under a shed  and set a big bag of wheat in it, behind the seat. Then he went into the  house to get a piece of string with which to tie the bag. Farmer Green  hadn't seen a pair of bright eyes that were watching him from the fence  near-by. And he didn't know that as soon as he started to cross the  barnyard, Sandy Chipmunk stole up to the wagon, climbed into it, and  crept inside the open bag of wheat.

Now, Sandy had not had his breakfast. So he began at once to eat heartily  of the wheat kernels, believing that after he had had a good meal it  would be time enough to think of carrying some of the wheat away to his  house. He only hoped that no one would take the bag away until he had  removed _all_ the wheat. There was enough of it--he was sure--to last him  for any number of winters.

Now, you must not think that Sandy was greedy, because he wanted all that  wheat. He intended all the time to leave the _bag_ for Farmer Green.

The wheat tasted so good that Sandy Chipmunk could think of nothing  else. So he never heard Johnnie Green's father when he came back from  the house. And before Sandy knew what was happening, Farmer Green had  reached into the wagon, drawn the mouth of the bag together, and tied it  hard and fast.

There was Sandy Chipmunk, inside the bag. And he was so frightened that  he couldn't eat another mouthful. He just shivered and shook, while  Farmer Green went into the barn, led out an old, slow horse called  Ebenezer, and harnessed him to the wagon.

Then Johnnie Green and his grandmother came out and seated themselves in  the wagon. Farmer Green gave Johnnie the reins; and Ebenezer started  jogging down the road toward the miller's, with Johnnie's old straw hat  and his grandmother's sunbonnet bobbing from side to side, and up and  down, and backwards and forwards, as the wagon jolted over ruts and  stones and thank-you-ma'ams--which were small ridges built across the  road, to turn the water into the ditch when it rained.

Cowering inside the bag, Sandy Chipmunk thought the earth was rocking,  for he had never ridden in a wagon before.

Although the sack was a stout one, Sandy could easily have gnawed his way  through it if he had not been too frightened to try. And there he stayed,  while all the time old Ebenezer kept plodding along toward the  grist-mill.

Johnnie Green and his grandmother, talking so near him, only alarmed  Sandy all the more. And he thought he could not be more scared than he  was. But all at once the wagon lurched forward and Grandmother Green  screamed. And Johnnie began to cry "Whoa! whoa!" in a loud voice.

Then Sandy Chipmunk began to shake harder than ever. He had no idea what  was happening.
