A SECRET (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  MISS KITTY CAT was behaving in the strangest manner. She came into the  kitchen and hovered about the feet of Farmer Green's wife, mewing and  looking up at Mrs. Green as if she had something special to tell her.

"What is it, Kitty?" Mrs. Green asked her. "Are you hungry?"

But Miss Kitty Cat soon showed that she wasn't hungry, for she wouldn't  touch anything that Mrs. Green offered her.

"Well, you'll have to run away, anyhow," Mrs. Green told her. "I can't  take a step with you right under my feet."

Though Miss Kitty Cat trotted towards the door, she soon made it plain  that she didn't intend to leave the kitchen unless her mistress went  with her. She came back and twitched Mrs. Green's apron gently with her  claws. Then she ran to the doorway again and called to Mrs. Green.

It seemed to Miss Kitty Cat that she couldn't have said more clearly  that she wanted to lead Mrs. Green somewhere. But still Mrs. Green  didn't quite understand.

"Scat!" she cried, just a bit impatiently. "I've too much to do to be  bothered this morning. I suppose you've caught a mouse and want to show  it to me. You'll have to bring it here, for I haven't any time to waste  to-day."

Miss Kitty Cat felt somewhat hurt. She went out and sat on the doorstep  and looked in at Farmer Green's wife. Now and then she gave a plaintive  mew. But Mrs. Green wouldn't pay any attention to her.

"Dear me!" said Miss Kitty. "Mrs. Green is busier than ever this  morning."

Old dog Spot had been watching Miss Kitty's actions. And now, as she  started towards the barn, he sidled up to her, wagging his tail to show  her that he wanted to have a few friendly words with her.

"If Mrs. Green won't come with you, I'll be glad to," he offered. "Just  lead the way and I'll follow."

"You?" Miss Kitty Cat exclaimed with scorn. "You needn't think I'd take  you where I want Mrs. Green to come. You needn't think I'd show you what  I want her to see."

"Ho!" cried old Spot. "I don't know how you're going to stop me from  following you."

"I do," said Miss Kitty firmly. "If you try to tag along after me where  I'm going I'll soon make you wish you had minded your own affairs."

There was a look in her eyes that old Spot did not like. It reminded him  of the time when he cornered Miss Kitty in the barn, soon after she  arrived at the farm. He remembered that his nose still bore the marks of  her sharp claws.

"Well, well!" he said. "I was only joking. I'm too busy to bother with  you, anyhow. I have a little matter to attend to in the pasture. There's  a Woodchuck up there that's getting too bold."

Then he trotted off, trying to look as important as possible, so that no  one would think he was afraid of Miss Kitty Cat.

"Good!" Miss Kitty cried, as she watched him while he started up the  lane.

"I'm glad he's out of the way. It would be awkward if I had to fight him  while I'm doing what I'm going to do."
