A SIGN OF RAIN (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  OVER near the garden fence lay an old hollow log. Grandfather Mole  discovered it one day; and thinking that it would be a fine place to  look for grubs and other good things, he crept into one end of it.

If he had been able to see, near the other end of the log, a pair of  bright eyes that peered at him out of the darkness perhaps he would have  backed out in a hurry. But it was all right. The owner of the two eyes  was only Sandy Chipmunk. And he spoke pleasantly to Grandfather Mole, in  a soft sort of chatter, because he didn't want to alarm him.

"Good afternoon!" said Grandfather Mole. At Sandy's first word he had  jumped. But as soon as he knew who was in the log with him he felt safe  enough. "What are you doing here, young man?" Grandfather inquired.

"I came in to get out of the rain," Sandy told him.

"Rain!" Grandfather Mole exclaimed. "It's not raining!"

"I know that. But it's going to," Sandy Chipmunk replied.

"There's not the least sign of rain," Grandfather Mole declared. Being  older than Sandy, he didn't hesitate to dispute what Sandy said. And he  never troubled himself to apologize, either. Sandy Chipmunk noticed  that, for he had been carefully reared by his mother. But he knew that  Grandfather Mole was considered an odd old gentleman. And besides, what  could Sandy have said that wouldn't have sounded rude?

"There's not a sign of rain," Grandfather Mole repeated, "so far as I  can see."

"How far can you see?" Sandy inquired politely.

"Tut, tut!" said Grandfather Mole. "What I mean is that I haven't  _noticed_ anything that foretells rain. For instance, I haven't had a  twinge of rheumatism since I don't know when."

"Well, I'm glad of that, anyhow," Sandy assured him. "But I saw a sign  of rain to-day that perhaps you never noticed."

"What was that?"

"Farmer Green's cat was washing her face on the doorsteps," Sandy  explained triumphantly. "It's a sure sign of rain. My mother has never  known it to fail."

"Farmer Green's cat!" Grandfather Mole repeated after him. And he  shuddered as he spoke. "Don't you know that she's not a trustworthy  person? You surely don't depend on her, I hope! She's not dependable."

"Well, you can always depend on her to jump at you," Sandy observed.

"She's a coward--that's what she is," Grandfather Mole scolded. "You  never heard of her chasing anybody that was bigger than herself, did  you? You never heard of her attacking Fatty Coon!"

Sandy Chipmunk said that if the cat hunted coons, she kept it to  herself.

"She's too wise to run any risk," said Grandfather Mole. "But if she's  washing her face just because she expects rain, then she's stupid.

"If the cat wants to wash her face, why doesn't she stick her head out  in the rain?" Grandfather Mole demanded. And without waiting for his  young companion to answer, he went on to say that in his opinion anybody  that washed his face in anything but dirt was stupid beyond all hope. "I  claim," said Grandfather Mole, "that there's nothing quite like a dirt  bath."

"There aren't many that would agree with you," Sandy Chipmunk told  him.

"There's a lot of stupid people in this valley," Grandfather Mole  retorted.

Sandy Chipmunk thought deeply for a few moments.

"I know of one person who would say you were right," he remarked at  last.

"Who's that?" Grandfather asked him.

"The boy, Johnnie Green!" Sandy Chipmunk replied. "If you could _see_  his face you'd know that he takes a dirt bath every day!"
