A SLY ONE (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

WHEN Freddie Firefly reported to Mrs. Ladybug and her neighbors thatBetsy Butterfly had taken neither butter nor eggs from Farmer Greenduring the night the field people were much puzzled.

"She's certainly a sly one!" Mrs. Ladybug exclaimed. "What do you thinkwe ought to do now?" she asked Daddy Longlegs, who was supposed to bevery old, and therefore very wise.

"I think you ought to warn her," he replied, after some thought. "Youought to tell Betsy Butterfly that she must stop pilfering."

"No doubt your advice is good," Mrs. Ladybug observed. "And I'll speakto Betsy this very morning.... You must come with me," she told Daddy."I naturally want to have a witness."

"Oh, I'll come!" he cried in his thin, quavering voice, though what shemeant by a "witness" was more than he knew.

So Mrs. Ladybug and Daddy Longlegs set forth to find Betsy Butterfly.And behind them followed a crowd of their neighbors. Even lazy BusterBumblebee joined the procession. Though he was a drone, and neverworked, he was always ready to exert himself for the sake of any newexcitement.

The strange company wandered back and forth across the meadow for sometime without finding Betsy Butterfly. But at last Mrs. Ladybug spiedher. And soon Betsy found herself surrounded by the mob.

"Goodness!" she cried, looking about her in surprise. "How nice of youall to call on me! I'm _so_ glad to see you!"

Betsy Butterfly was so cordial that Mrs. Ladybug couldn't help lookingsomewhat uncomfortable. She couldn't avoid a strange feeling of guilt.And yet she told herself that Betsy Butterfly was really the guilty one.

"She's a bold piece!" Mrs. Ladybug exclaimed, under her breath.

"Perhaps you won't be so happy to see us when you hear what we have tosay to you," Mrs. Ladybug began.

"There hasn't been an accident, I hope!" Betsy cried. "Your house hasn'tburned?"

"No!" replied Mrs. Ladybug. And again she said, "No!" in a very decidedmanner. "We've come to warn you that we've found out about yourtrickery," she announced. "We know that you like butter, and thatyou're in the habit of taking it from Farmer Green--yes! and eggs, too!"

"Why, I don't know what you're talking about!" Betsy Butterfly faltered.She was really greatly surprised.

"It won't help you to be untruthful," Mrs. Ladybug told her severely."It's no wonder--" she added--"it's no wonder Mrs. Green wouldn't giveme a bit of butter when I went to the farmhouse yesterday. She thought_I_ was the one that's been stealing it from her, right along."

And then Mrs. Ladybug was amazed by what followed. For Betsy Butterflyactually smiled at her.

"You're mistaken," she said. "I never eat butter. I don't like it. Andas for eggs, how could I ever break through an egg-shell?"

"I don't know anything about that," said Mrs. Ladybug. "And besides, Ididn't come here to be questioned," she added tartly. "If you have anyquestions to ask, just ask 'em of _him_, for he's seen you with yourface buried in butter!" And she pointed at Daddy Longlegs.

And now it was _his_ turn to look uncomfortable. For he considered BetsyButterfly to be very beautiful indeed.
