A Slight Dispute (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  [Illustration: 11 A Slight Dispute]

  You may have heard somewhere of Uncle Jerry Chuck. He was an old  woodchuck who lived in Farmer Green's pasture. And he was known far and  wide as the stingiest person in Pleasant Valley. He never paid for  anything if he could possibly help it.

Well, Uncle Jerry had the toothache. That was nothing new for him,  either. He often had the toothache. And it was always the same tooth,  too--because he had only one in his head. But he never would go and have  his tooth pulled, because he simply _hated_ the thought of paying  anyone to take it out. He had an idea that _he_ was the one who should  be paid. But he never could find a dentist who looked at the matter in  that light.

Uncle Jerry was strolling through the woods. He had a big red  handkerchief tied about his face, because it was a cold day. And he was  getting very tired of the toothache. He was just wishing that he could  get rid of it--for nothing. He even thought he would be willing to part  with that tooth without asking any pay for it, when what should he see  right in front of him but a big sign, which said:



JAMES RABBIT

  TOOTH PULLER

"Hello!" said Uncle Jerry. "Here's something new! I've never noticed  that sign before." And he stepped inside the hollow stump to which the  sign was nailed.

And there he found Jimmy Rabbit, in a white apron, and with a pair of  pincers in his hand. Frisky Squirrel was there, too, sitting in a corner  and holding onto his head.

"What are your prices?" Uncle Jerry asked.

"An ear of corn for a tooth!" said Jimmy Rabbit promptly.

"That's reasonable enough," Uncle Jerry Chuck replied. And he sat down  at once. "Go ahead!" he said.

Jimmy Rabbit was delighted.

"Which one is it?" he asked.

"All of them!" said Uncle Jerry.

That was even better than Jimmy had expected. But when he looked inside  Uncle Jerry's mouth he was disappointed.

"Why, you've only one tooth in your head!" he exclaimed in his  surprise.

"Hurry up!" Uncle Jerry snapped. "I came here to have a tooth  pulled--not _to be talked to_." He was always ill tempered. And his  toothache only made him crosser than ever.

So Jimmy Rabbit went to work. He tugged away with all his might and  main. Now and then Uncle Jerry groaned. And whenever he groaned, Jimmy  turned pale. For he was somewhat afraid of the old gentleman.

At last Jimmy tumbled backward, head over heels. That was when the tooth  came out.

"Well, you were long enough about it, I must say!" Uncle Jerry Chuck  said. "Give me my ear of corn now, for I must hurry home."

"Give _you your_ ear of corn?" Jimmy Rabbit cried. He could scarcely  believe his own ears--and goodness knows they were big enough to hear  anything anybody said.

"Why, certainly!" Uncle Jerry replied. "I asked you your prices, you  know. And you said: 'An ear of corn for a tooth!'"

Jimmy Rabbit didn't know what to do.

"Why"--he gasped, "I thought _you_ were going to pay _me_!"

"Well, you see you were mistaken," Uncle Jerry told him. "And you had  better give me that ear of corn at once, or it will be the worse for  you."

For all the old fellow was toothless, Jimmy saw that his claws were long  and sharp. He knew that he had got himself into a fix. And he couldn't  think of any way out of it.

"You've got my tooth! I want an ear of corn! You've got my tooth! I want  an ear of corn!" Uncle Jerry Chuck kept saying. And each time he said  it, his voice grew louder, until he was shouting at the top of his  lungs.

Then Jimmy Rabbit had an idea. He picked up Uncle Jerry's tooth off the  floor and placed it in Uncle Jerry's hand.

"There's your tooth!" he cried. "I don't want it!"

"But you promised to give me an ear of corn for my tooth!" said Uncle  Jerry.

"Well, haven't you got your tooth?" asked Jimmy Rabbit.

And Uncle Jerry Chuck was so puzzled that he went home without saying  another word.

[Illustration]
