A SONG OF KABIR (Fables:-Ages 0 to 5)



 Oh, light was the world that he weighed in his hands!

   Oh, heavy the tale of his fiefs and his lands!

   He has gone from the guddee and put on the shroud,

   And departed in guise of bairagi avowed!



 Now the white road to Delhi is mat for his feet,

   The sal and the kikar must guard him from heat;

   His home is the camp, and the waste, and the crowd--

   He is seeking the Way as bairagi avowed!



 He has looked upon Man, and his eyeballs are clear

   (There was One; there is One, and but One, saith Kabir);

   The Red Mist of Doing has thinned to a cloud--

   He has taken the Path for bairagi avowed!



 To learn and discern of his brother the clod,

   Of his brother the brute, and his brother the God.

   He has gone from the council and put on the shroud

   ("Can ye hear?" saith Kabir), a bairagi avowed!



  ‘



  Veil them, cover them, wall them round--



  Blossom, and creeper, and weed--



Let us forget the sight and the sound,



  The smell and the touch of the breed!



  Fat black ash by the altar-stone,



  Here is the white-foot rain,



And the does bring forth in the fields unsown,



  And none shall affright them again;



And the blind walls crumble, unknown, o'erthrown



  And none shall inhabit again!

  You will remember that after Mowgli had pinned Shere Khan's hide to  the Council Rock, he told as many as were left of the Seeonee Pack that  henceforward he would hunt in the Jungle alone; and the four children of  Mother and Father Wolf said that they would hunt with him. But it is not  easy to change one's life all in a minute--particularly in the Jungle.  The first thing Mowgli did, when the disorderly Pack had slunk off, was  to go to the home-cave, and sleep for a day and a night. Then he told  Mother Wolf and Father Wolf as much as they could understand of his  adventures among men; and when he made the morning sun flicker up and  down the blade of his skinning-knife,--the same he had skinned Shere  Khan with,--they said he had learned something. Then Akela and Gray  Brother had to explain their share of the great buffalo-drive in the  ravine, and Baloo toiled up the hill to hear all about it, and Bagheera  scratched himself all over with pure delight at the way in which Mowgli  had managed his war.

It was long after sunrise, but no one dreamed of going to sleep, and  from time to time, during the talk, Mother Wolf would throw up her head,  and sniff a deep snuff of satisfaction as the wind brought her the smell  of the tiger-skin on the Council Rock.

"But for Akela and Gray Brother here," Mowgli said, at the end, "I could  have done nothing. Oh, mother, mother! if thou hadst seen the black  herd-bulls pour down the ravine, or hurry through the gates when the  Man-Pack flung stones at me!"

"I am glad I did not see that last," said Mother Wolf stiffly. "It is  not MY custom to suffer my cubs to be driven to and fro like jackals.  _I_ would have taken a price from the Man-Pack; but I would have spared  the woman who gave thee the milk. Yes, I would have spared her alone."

"Peace, peace, Raksha!" said Father Wolf, lazily. "Our Frog has come  back again--so wise that his own father must lick his feet; and what is  a cut, more or less, on the head? Leave Men alone." Baloo and Bagheera  both echoed: "Leave Men alone."

Mowgli, his head on Mother Wolf's side, smiled contentedly, and said  that, for his own part, he never wished to see, or hear, or smell Man  again.

"But what," said Akela, cocking one ear--"but what if men do not leave  thee alone, Little Brother?"

"We be FIVE," said Gray Brother, looking round at the company, and  snapping his jaws on the last word.

"We also might attend to that hunting," said Bagheera, with a little  switch-switch of his tail, looking at Baloo. "But why think of men now,  Akela?"

"For this reason," the Lone Wolf answered: "when that yellow chief's  hide was hung up on the rock, I went back along our trail to the  village, stepping in my tracks, turning aside, and lying down, to make  a mixed trail in case one should follow us. But when I had fouled the  trail so that I myself hardly knew it again, Mang, the Bat, came hawking  between the trees, and hung up above me." Said Mang, "The village of the  Man-Pack, where they cast out the Man-cub, hums like a hornet's nest."

"It was a big stone that I threw," chuckled Mowgli, who had often amused  himself by throwing ripe paw-paws into a hornet's nest, and racing off  to the nearest pool before the hornets caught him.

"I asked of Mang what he had seen. He said that the Red Flower blossomed  at the gate of the village, and men sat about it carrying guns. Now _I_  know, for I have good cause,"--Akela looked down at the old dry scars  on his flank and side,--"that men do not carry guns for pleasure.  Presently, Little Brother, a man with a gun follows our trail--if,  indeed, he be not already on it."

"But why should he? Men have cast me out. What more do they need?" said  Mowgli angrily.

"Thou art a man, Little Brother," Akela returned. "It is not for US, the  Free Hunters, to tell thee what thy brethren do, or why."

He had just time to snatch up his paw as the skinning-knife cut deep  into the ground below. Mowgli struck quicker than an average human  eye could follow but Akela was a wolf; and even a dog, who is very far  removed from the wild wolf, his ancestor, can be waked out of deep sleep  by a cart-wheel touching his flank, and can spring away unharmed before  that wheel comes on.

"Another time," Mowgli said quietly, returning the knife to its sheath,  "speak of the Man-Pack and of Mowgli in TWO breaths--not one."

"Phff! That is a sharp tooth," said Akela, snuffing at the blade's  cut in the earth, "but living with the Man-Pack has spoiled thine eye,  Little Brother. I could have killed a buck while thou wast striking."

Bagheera sprang to his feet, thrust up his head as far as he could,  sniffed, and stiffened through every curve in his body. Gray Brother  followed his example quickly, keeping a little to his left to get the  wind that was blowing from the right, while Akela bounded fifty yards up  wind, and, half-crouching, stiffened too. Mowgli looked on enviously.  He could smell things as very few human beings could, but he had never  reached the hair-trigger-like sensitiveness of a Jungle nose; and his  three months in the smoky village had set him back sadly. However, he  dampened his finger, rubbed it on his nose, and stood erect to catch the  upper scent, which, though it is the faintest, is the truest.

"Man!" Akela growled, dropping on his haunches.

"Buldeo!" said Mowgli, sitting down. "He follows our trail, and yonder  is the sunlight on his gun. Look!"

It was no more than a splash of sunlight, for a fraction of a second,  on the brass clamps of the old Tower musket, but nothing in the Jungle  winks with just that flash, except when the clouds race over the sky.  Then a piece of mica, or a little pool, or even a highly-polished leaf  will flash like a heliograph. But that day was cloudless and still.

"I knew men would follow," said Akela triumphantly. "Not for nothing  have I led the Pack."

The four cubs said nothing, but ran down hill on their bellies, melting  into the thorn and under-brush as a mole melts into a lawn.

"Where go ye, and without word?" Mowgli called.

"H'sh! We roll his skull here before mid-day!" Gray Brother answered.

"Back! Back and wait! Man does not eat Man!" Mowgli shrieked.

"Who was a wolf but now? Who drove the knife at me for thinking he might  be Man?" said Akela, as the four wolves turned back sullenly and dropped  to heel.

"Am I to give reason for all I choose to, do?" said Mowgli furiously.

"That is Man! There speaks Man!" Bagheera muttered under his whiskers.  "Even so did men talk round the King's cages at Oodeypore. We of the  Jungle know that Man is wisest of all. If we trusted our ears we should  know that of all things he is most foolish." Raising his voice, he  added, "The Man-cub is right in this. Men hunt in packs. To kill one,  unless we know what the others will do, is bad hunting. Come, let us see  what this Man means toward us."

"We will not come," Gray Brother growled. "Hunt alone, Little Brother.  WE know our own minds. The skull would have been ready to bring by now."

Mowgli had been looking from one to the other of his friends, his chest  heaving and his eyes full of tears. He strode forward to the wolves,  and, dropping on one knee, said: "Do I not know my mind? Look at me!"

They looked uneasily, and when their eyes wandered, he called them back  again and again, till their hair stood up all over their bodies, and  they trembled in every limb, while Mowgli stared and stared.

"Now," said he, "of us five, which is leader?"

"Thou art leader, Little Brother," said Gray Brother, and he licked  Mowgli's foot.

"Follow, then," said Mowgli, and the four followed at his heels with  their tails between their legs.

"This comes of living with the Man-Pack," said Bagheera, slipping down  after them. "There is more in the Jungle now than Jungle Law, Baloo."

The old bear said nothing, but he thought many things.

Mowgli cut across noiselessly through the Jungle, at right angles to  Buldeo's path, till, parting the undergrowth, he saw the old man, his  musket on his shoulder, running up the trail of overnight at a dog-trot.

You will remember that Mowgli had left the village with the heavy weight  of Shere Khan's raw hide on his shoulders, while Akela and Gray Brother  trotted behind, so that the triple trail was very clearly marked.  Presently Buldeo came to where Akela, as you know, had gone back and  mixed it all up. Then he sat down, and coughed and grunted, and made  little casts round and about into the Jungle to pick it up again, and,  all the time he could have thrown a stone over those who were watching  him. No one can be so silent as a wolf when he does not care to be  heard; and Mowgli, though the wolves thought he moved very clumsily,  could come and go like a shadow. They ringed the old man as a school  of porpoises ring a steamer at full speed, and as they ringed him they  talked unconcernedly, for their speech began below the lowest end of the  scale that untrained human beings can hear. [The other end is bounded by  the high squeak of Mang, the Bat, which very many people cannot catch at  all. From that note all the bird and bat and insect talk takes on.]

"This is better than any kill," said Gray Brother, as Buldeo stooped  and peered and puffed. "He looks like a lost pig in the Jungles by the  river. What does he say?" Buldeo was muttering savagely.

Mowgli translated. "He says that packs of wolves must have danced round  me. He says that he never saw such a trail in his life. He says he is  tired."

"He will be rested before he picks it up again," said Bagheera coolly,  as he slipped round a tree-trunk, in the game of blindman's-buff that  they were playing. "NOW, what does the lean thing do?"

"Eat or blow smoke out of his mouth. Men always play with their mouths,"  said Mowgli; and the silent trailers saw the old man fill and light  and puff at a water-pipe, and they took good note of the smell of the  tobacco, so as to be sure of Buldeo in the darkest night, if necessary.

Then a little knot of charcoal-burners came down the path, and naturally  halted to speak to Buldeo, whose fame as a hunter reached for at least  twenty miles round. They all sat down and smoked, and Bagheera and  the others came up and watched while Buldeo began to tell the story of  Mowgli, the Devil-child, from one end to another, with additions and  inventions. How he himself had really killed Shere Khan; and how Mowgli  had turned himself into a wolf, and fought with him all the afternoon,  and changed into a boy again and bewitched Buldeo's rifle, so that the  bullet turned the corner, when he pointed it at Mowgli, and killed one  of Buldeo's own buffaloes; and how the village, knowing him to be the  bravest hunter in Seeonee, had sent him out to kill this Devil-child.  But meantime the village had got hold of Messua and her husband, who  were undoubtedly the father and mother of this Devil-child, and had  barricaded them in their own hut, and presently would torture them to  make them confess they were witch and wizard, and then they would be  burned to death.

"When?" said the charcoal-burners, because they would very much like to  be present at the ceremony.

Buldeo said that nothing would be done till he returned, because the  village wished him to kill the Jungle Boy first. After that they would  dispose of Messua and her husband, and divide their lands and buffaloes  among the village. Messua's husband had some remarkably fine buffaloes,  too. It was an excellent thing to destroy wizards, Buldeo thought; and  people who entertained Wolf-children out of the Jungle were clearly the  worst kind of witches.

But, said the charcoal-burners, what would happen if the English heard  of it? The English, they had heard, were a perfectly mad people, who  would not let honest farmers kill witches in peace.

Why, said Buldeo, the head-man of the village would report that Messua  and her husband had died of snake-bite. THAT was all arranged, and the  only thing now was to kill the Wolf-child. They did not happen to have  seen anything of such a creature?

The charcoal-burners looked round cautiously, and thanked their stars  they had not; but they had no doubt that so brave a man as Buldeo would  find him if any one could. The sun was getting rather low, and they had  an idea that they would push on to Buldeo's village and see that wicked  witch. Buldeo said that, though it was his duty to kill the Devil-child,  he could not think of letting a party of unarmed men go through the  Jungle, which might produce the Wolf-demon at any minute, without his  escort. He, therefore, would accompany them, and if the sorcerer's child  appeared--well, he would show them how the best hunter in Seeonee dealt  with such things. The Brahmin, he said, had given him a charm against  the creature that made everything perfectly safe.

"What says he? What says he? What says he?" the wolves repeated every  few minutes; and Mowgli translated until he came to the witch part of  the story, which was a little beyond him, and then he said that the man  and woman who had been so kind to him were trapped.

"Does Man trap Man?" said Bagheera.

"So he says. I cannot understand the talk. They are all mad together.  What have Messua and her man to do with me that they should be put in  a trap; and what is all this talk about the Red Flower? I must look  to this. Whatever they would do to Messua they will not do till Buldeo  returns. And so----" Mowgli thought hard, with his fingers playing round  the haft of the skinning-knife, while Buldeo and the charcoal-burners  went off very valiantly in single file.

"I go hot-foot back to the Man-Pack," Mowgli said at last.

"And those?" said Gray Brother, looking hungrily after the brown backs  of the charcoal-burners.

"Sing them home," said Mowgli, with a grin; "I do not wish them to be at  the village gates till it is dark. Can ye hold them?"

Gray Brother bared his white teeth in contempt. "We can head them round  and round in circles like tethered goats--if I know Man."

"That I do not need. Sing to them a little, lest they be lonely on the  road, and, Gray Brother, the song need not be of the sweetest. Go with  them, Bagheera, and help make that song. When night is shut down, meet  me by the village--Gray Brother knows the place."

"It is no light hunting to work for a Man-cub. When shall I sleep?" said  Bagheera, yawning, though his eyes showed that he was delighted with the  amusement. "Me to sing to naked men! But let us try."

He lowered his head so that the sound would travel, and cried a long,  long, "Good hunting"--a midnight call in the afternoon, which was quite  awful enough to begin with. Mowgli heard it rumble, and rise, and fall,  and die off in a creepy sort of whine behind him, and laughed to himself  as he ran through the Jungle. He could see the charcoal-burners huddled  in a knot; old Buldeo's gun-barrel waving, like a banana-leaf, to every  point of the compass at once. Then Gray Brother gave the Ya-la-hi!  Yalaha! call for the buck-driving, when the Pack drives the nilghai, the  big blue cow, before them, and it seemed to come from the very ends of  the earth, nearer, and nearer, and nearer, till it ended in a shriek  snapped off short. The other three answered, till even Mowgli could have  vowed that the full Pack was in full cry, and then they all broke  into the magnificent Morning-song in the Jungle, with every turn, and  flourish, and grace-note that a deep-mouthed wolf of the Pack knows.  This is a rough rendering of the song, but you must imagine what it  sounds like when it breaks the afternoon hush of the Jungle:--



 One moment past our bodies cast



 No shadow on the plain;

   Now clear and black they stride our track,



 And we run home again.

   In morning hush, each rock and bush



 Stands hard, and high, and raw:

   Then give the Call: "Good rest to all



 That keep The Jungle Law!"



 Now horn and pelt our peoples melt



 In covert to abide;

   Now, crouched and still, to cave and hill



 Our Jungle Barons glide.

   Now, stark and plain, Man's oxen strain,



 That draw the new-yoked plough;

   Now, stripped and dread, the dawn is red



 Above the lit talao.



 Ho! Get to lair! The sun's aflare



 Behind the breathing grass:

   And cracking through the young bamboo



 The warning whispers pass.

   By day made strange, the woods we range



 With blinking eyes we scan;

   While down the skies the wild duck cries



 "The Day--the Day to Man!"



 The dew is dried that drenched our hide



 Or washed about our way;

   And where we drank, the puddled bank



 Is crisping into clay.

   The traitor Dark gives up each mark



 Of stretched or hooded claw;

   Then hear the Call: "Good rest to all



 That keep the Jungle Law!"

But no translation can give the effect of it, or the yelping scorn the  Four threw into every word of it, as they heard the trees crash when  the men hastily climbed up into the branches, and Buldeo began repeating  incantations and charms. Then they lay down and slept, for, like all who  live by their own exertions, they were of a methodical cast of mind; and  no one can work well without sleep.

Meantime, Mowgli was putting the miles behind him, nine to the hour,  swinging on, delighted to find himself so fit after all his cramped  months among men. The one idea in his head was to get Messua and her  husband out of the trap, whatever it was; for he had a natural mistrust  of traps. Later on, he promised himself, he would pay his debts to the  village at large.

It was at twilight when he saw the well-remembered grazing-grounds, and  the dhak-tree where Gray Brother had waited for him on the morning that  he killed Shere Khan. Angry as he was at the whole breed and community  of Man, something jumped up in his throat and made him catch his breath  when he looked at the village roofs. He noticed that every one had come  in from the fields unusually early, and that, instead of getting to  their evening cooking, they gathered in a crowd under the village tree,  and chattered, and shouted.

"Men must always be making traps for men, or they are not content," said  Mowgli. "Last night it was Mowgli--but that night seems many Rains ago.  To-night it is Messua and her man. To-morrow, and for very many nights  after, it will be Mowgli's turn again."

He crept along outside the wall till he came to Messua's hut, and looked  through the window into the room. There lay Messua, gagged, and bound  hand and foot, breathing hard, and groaning: her husband was tied to the  gaily-painted bedstead. The door of the hut that opened into the street  was shut fast, and three or four people were sitting with their backs to  it.

Mowgli knew the manners and customs of the villagers very fairly. He  argued that so long as they could eat, and talk, and smoke, they would  not do anything else; but as soon as they had fed they would begin to be  dangerous. Buldeo would be coming in before long, and if his escort had  done its duty, Buldeo would have a very interesting tale to tell. So he  went in through the window, and, stooping over the man and the woman,  cut their thongs, pulling out the gags, and looked round the hut for  some milk.

Messua was half wild with pain and fear (she had been beaten and stoned  all the morning), and Mowgli put his hand over her mouth just in time  to stop a scream. Her husband was only bewildered and angry, and sat  picking dust and things out of his torn beard.

"I knew--I knew he would come," Messua sobbed at last. "Now do I KNOW  that he is my son!" and she hugged Mowgli to her heart. Up to that time  Mowgli had been perfectly steady, but now he began to tremble all over,  and that surprised him immensely.

"Why are these thongs? Why have they tied thee?" he asked, after a  pause.

"To be put to the death for making a son of thee--what else?" said the  man sullenly. "Look! I bleed."

Messua said nothing, but it was at her wounds that Mowgli looked, and  they heard him grit his teeth when he saw the blood.

"Whose work is this?" said he. "There is a price to pay."

"The work of all the village. I was too rich. I had too many cattle.  THEREFORE she and I are witches, because we gave thee shelter."

"I do not understand. Let Messua tell the tale."

"I gave thee milk, Nathoo; dost thou remember?" Messua said timidly.  "Because thou wast my son, whom the tiger took, and because I loved thee  very dearly. They said that I was thy mother, the mother of a devil, and  therefore worthy of death."

"And what is a devil?" said Mowgli. "Death I have seen."

The man looked up gloomily, but Messua laughed. "See!" she said to her  husband, "I knew--I said that he was no sorcerer. He is my son--my son!"

"Son or sorcerer, what good will that do us?" the man answered. "We be  as dead already."

"Yonder is the road to the Jungle"--Mowgli pointed through the window.  "Your hands and feet are free. Go now."

"We do not know the Jungle, my son, as--as thou knowest," Messua began.  "I do not think that I could walk far."

"And the men and women would be upon our backs and drag us here again,"  said the husband.

"H'm!" said Mowgli, and he tickled the palm of his hand with the tip  of his skinning-knife; "I have no wish to do harm to any one of this  village--YET. But I do not think they will stay thee. In a little while  they will have much else to think upon. Ah!" he lifted his head and  listened to shouting and trampling outside. "So they have let Buldeo  come home at last?"

"He was sent out this morning to kill thee," Messua cried. "Didst thou  meet him?"

"Yes--we--I met him. He has a tale to tell and while he is telling it  there is time to do much. But first I will learn what they mean. Think  where ye would go, and tell me when I come back."

He bounded through the window and ran along again outside the wall  of the village till he came within ear-shot of the crowd round the  peepul-tree. Buldeo was lying on the ground, coughing and groaning,  and every one was asking him questions. His hair had fallen about his  shoulders; his hands and legs were skinned from climbing up trees,  and he could hardly speak, but he felt the importance of his position  keenly. From time to time he said something about devils and singing  devils, and magic enchantment, just to give the crowd a taste of what  was coming. Then he called for water.

"Bah!" said Mowgli. "Chatter--chatter! Talk, talk! Men are  blood-brothers of the Bandar-log. Now he must wash his mouth with water;  now he must blow smoke; and when all that is done he has still his story  to tell. They are very wise people--men. They will leave no one to guard  Messua till their ears are stuffed with Buldeo's tales. And--I grow as  lazy as they!"

He shook himself and glided back to the hut. Just as he was at the  window he felt a touch on his foot.

"Mother," said he, for he knew that tongue well, "what dost THOU here?"

"I heard my children singing through the woods, and I followed the one I  loved best. Little Frog, I have a desire to see that woman who gave thee  milk," said Mother Wolf, all wet with the dew.

"They have bound and mean to kill her. I have cut those ties, and she  goes with her man through the Jungle."

"I also will follow. I am old, but not yet toothless." Mother Wolf  reared herself up on end, and looked through the window into the dark of  the hut.

In a minute she dropped noiselessly, and all she said was: "I gave thee  thy first milk; but Bagheera speaks truth: Man goes to Man at the last."

"Maybe," said Mowgli, with a very unpleasant look on his face; "but  to-night I am very far from that trail. Wait here, but do not let her  see."

"THOU wast never afraid of ME, Little Frog," said Mother Wolf, backing  into the high grass, and blotting herself out, as she knew how.

"And now," said Mowgli cheerfully, as he swung into the hut again, "they  are all sitting round Buldeo, who is saying that which did not happen.  When his talk is finished, they say they will assuredly come here with  the Red--with fire and burn you both. And then?"

"I have spoken to my man," said Messua. "Khanhiwara is thirty miles from  here, but at Khanhiwara we may find the English--"

"And what Pack are they?" said Mowgli.

"I do not know. They be white, and it is said that they govern all  the land, and do not suffer people to burn or beat each other without  witnesses. If we can get thither to-night, we live. Otherwise we die."

"Live, then. No man passes the gates to-night. But what does HE do?"  Messua's husband was on his hands and knees digging up the earth in one  corner of the hut.

"It is his little money," said Messua. "We can take nothing else."

"Ah, yes. The stuff that passes from hand to hand and never grows  warmer. Do they need it outside this place also?" said Mowgli.

The man stared angrily. "He is a fool, and no devil," he muttered. "With  the money I can buy a horse. We are too bruised to walk far, and the  village will follow us in an hour."

"I say they will NOT follow till I choose; but a horse is well thought  of, for Messua is tired." Her husband stood up and knotted the last  of the rupees into his waist-cloth. Mowgli helped Messua through the  window, and the cool night air revived her, but the Jungle in the  starlight looked very dark and terrible.

"Ye know the trail to Khanhiwara?" Mowgli whispered.

They nodded.

"Good. Remember, now, not to be afraid. And there is no need to go  quickly. Only--only there may be some small singing in the Jungle behind  you and before."

"Think you we would have risked a night in the Jungle through anything  less than the fear of burning? It is better to be killed by beasts than  by men," said Messua's husband; but Messua looked at Mowgli and smiled.

"I say," Mowgli went on, just as though he were Baloo repeating an old  Jungle Law for the hundredth time to a foolish cub--"I say that not a  tooth in the Jungle is bared against you; not a foot in the Jungle is  lifted against you. Neither man nor beast shall stay you till you come  within eye-shot of Khanhiwara. There will be a watch about you." He  turned quickly to Messua, saying, "HE does not believe, but thou wilt  believe?"

"Ay, surely, my son. Man, ghost, or wolf of the Jungle, I believe."

"HE will be afraid when he hears my people singing. Thou wilt know and  understand. Go now, and slowly, for there is no need of any haste. The  gates are shut."

Messua flung herself sobbing at Mowgli's feet, but he lifted her very  quickly with a shiver. Then she hung about his neck and called him every  name of blessing she could think of, but her husband looked enviously  across his fields, and said: "IF we reach Khanhiwara, and I get the ear  of the English, I will bring such a lawsuit against the Brahmin and old  Buldeo and the others as shall eat the village to the bone. They shall  pay me twice over for my crops untilled and my buffaloes unfed. I will  have a great justice."

Mowgli laughed. "I do not know what justice is, but--come next Rains.  and see what is left."

They went off toward the Jungle, and Mother Wolf leaped from her place  of hiding.

"Follow!" said Mowgli; "and look to it that all the Jungle knows these  two are safe. Give tongue a little. I would call Bagheera."

The long, low howl rose and fell, and Mowgli saw Messua's husband flinch  and turn, half minded to run back to the hut.

"Go on," Mowgli called cheerfully. "I said there might be singing. That  call will follow up to Khanhiwara. It is Favour of the Jungle."

Messua urged her husband forward, and the darkness shut down on them and  Mother Wolf as Bagheera rose up almost under Mowgli's feet, trembling  with delight of the night that drives the Jungle People wild.

"I am ashamed of thy brethren," he said, purring. "What? Did they not  sing sweetly to Buldeo?" said Mowgli.

"Too well! Too well! They made even ME forget my pride, and, by the  Broken Lock that freed me, I went singing through the Jungle as though I  were out wooing in the spring! Didst thou not hear us?"

"I had other game afoot. Ask Buldeo if he liked the song. But where  are the Four? I do not wish one of the Man-Pack to leave the gates  to-night."

"What need of the Four, then?" said Bagheera, shifting from foot to  foot, his eyes ablaze, and purring louder than ever. "I can hold them,  Little Brother. Is it killing at last? The singing and the sight of the  men climbing up the trees have made me very ready. Who is Man that we  should care for him--the naked brown digger, the hairless and toothless,  the eater of earth? I have followed him all day--at noon--in the white  sunlight. I herded him as the wolves herd buck. I am Bagheera! Bagheera!  Bagheera! As I dance with my shadow, so danced I with those men. Look!"  The great panther leaped as a kitten leaps at a dead leaf whirling  overhead, struck left and right into the empty air, that sang under the  strokes, landed noiselessly, and leaped again and again, while the  half purr, half growl gathered head as steam rumbles in a boiler. "I  am Bagheera--in the jungle--in the night, and my strength is in me. Who  shall stay my stroke? Man-cub, with one blow of my paw I could beat thy  head flat as a dead frog in the summer!"

"Strike, then!" said Mowgli, in the dialect of the village, NOT the  talk of the Jungle, and the human words brought Bagheera to a full stop,  flung back on haunches that quivered under him, his head just at the  level of Mowgli's. Once more Mowgli stared, as he had stared at the  rebellious cubs, full into the beryl-green eyes till the red glare  behind their green went out like the light of a lighthouse shut off  twenty miles across the sea; till the eyes dropped, and the big head  with them--dropped lower and lower, and the red rasp of a tongue grated  on Mowgli's instep.

"Brother--Brother--Brother!" the boy whispered, stroking steadily and  lightly from the neck along the heaving back. "Be still, be still! It is  the fault of the night, and no fault of thine."

"It was the smells of the night," said Bagheera penitently. "This air  cries aloud to me. But how dost THOU know?"

Of course the air round an Indian village is full of all kinds of  smells, and to any creature who does nearly all his thinking through his  nose, smells are as maddening as music and drugs are to human beings.  Mowgli gentled the panther for a few minutes longer, and he lay down  like a cat before a fire, his paws tucked under his breast, and his eyes  half shut.

"Thou art of the Jungle and NOT of the Jungle," he said at last. "And I  am only a black panther. But I love thee, Little Brother."

"They are very long at their talk under the tree," Mowgli said, without  noticing the last sentence. "Buldeo must have told many tales. They  should come soon to drag the woman and her man out of the trap and put  them into the Red Flower. They will find that trap sprung. Ho! ho!"

"Nay, listen," said Bagheera. "The fever is out of my blood now. Let  them find ME there! Few would leave their houses after meeting me. It is  not the first time I have been in a cage; and I do not think they will  tie ME with cords."

"Be wise, then," said Mowgli, laughing; for he was beginning to feel as  reckless as the panther, who had glided into the hut.

"Pah!" Bagheera grunted. "This place is rank with Man, but here is just  such a bed as they gave me to lie upon in the King's cages at Oodeypore.  Now I lie down." Mowgli heard the strings of the cot crack under the  great brute's weight. "By the Broken Lock that freed me, they will think  they have caught big game! Come and sit beside me, Little Brother; we  will give them 'good hunting' together!"

"No; I have another thought in my stomach. The Man-Pack shall not know  what share I have in the sport. Make thine own hunt. I do not wish to  see them."

"Be it so," said Bagheera. "Ah, now they come!"

The conference under the peepul-tree had been growing noisier and  noisier, at the far end of the village. It broke in wild yells, and  a rush up the street of men and women, waving clubs and bamboos and  sickles and knives. Buldeo and the Brahmin were at the head of it, but  the mob was close at their heels, and they cried, "The witch and the  wizard! Let us see if hot coins will make them confess! Burn the hut  over their heads! We will teach them to shelter wolf-devils! Nay, beat  them first! Torches! More torches! Buldeo, heat the gun-barrels!"

Here was some little difficulty with the catch of the door. It had been  very firmly fastened, but the crowd tore it away bodily, and the light  of the torches streamed into the room where, stretched at full length on  the bed, his paws crossed and lightly hung down over one end, black  as the Pit, and terrible as a demon, was Bagheera. There was one  half-minute of desperate silence, as the front ranks of the crowd clawed  and tore their way back from the threshold, and in that minute  Bagheera raised his head and yawned--elaborately, carefully, and  ostentatiously--as he would yawn when he wished to insult an equal.  The fringed lips drew back and up; the red tongue curled; the lower jaw  dropped and dropped till you could see half-way down the hot gullet; and  the gigantic dog-teeth stood clear to the pit of the gums till they rang  together, upper and under, with the snick of steel-faced wards shooting  home round the edges of a safe. Next instant the street was empty;  Bagheera had leaped back through the window, and stood at Mowgli's  side, while a yelling, screaming torrent scrambled and tumbled one over  another in their panic haste to get to their own huts.

"They will not stir till day comes," said Bagheera quietly. "And now?"

The silence of the afternoon sleep seemed to have overtaken the village;  but, as they listened, they could hear the sound of heavy grain-boxes  being dragged over earthen floors and set down against doors. Bagheera  was quite right; the village would not stir till daylight. Mowgli sat  still, and thought, and his face grew darker and darker.

"What have I done?" said Bagheera, at last coming to his feet, fawning.

"Nothing but great good. Watch them now till the day. I sleep." Mowgli  ran off into the Jungle, and dropped like a dead man across a rock, and  slept and slept the day round, and the night back again.

When he waked, Bagheera was at his side, and there was a newly-killed  buck at his feet. Bagheera watched curiously while Mowgli went to work  with his skinning-knife, ate and drank, and turned over with his chin in  his hands.

"The man and the woman are come safe within eye-shot of Khanhiwara,"  Bagheera said. "Thy lair mother sent the word back by Chil, the Kite.  They found a horse before midnight of the night they were freed, and  went very quickly. Is not that well?"

"That is well," said Mowgli.

"And thy Man-Pack in the village did not stir till the sun was high this  morning. Then they ate their food and ran back quickly to their houses."

"Did they, by chance, see thee?"

"It may have been. I was rolling in the dust before the gate at dawn,  and I may have made also some small song to myself. Now, Little Brother,  there is nothing more to do. Come hunting with me and Baloo. He has new  hives that he wishes to show, and we all desire thee back again as of  old. Take off that look which makes even me afraid! The man and woman  will not be put into the Red Flower, and all goes well in the Jungle. Is  it not true? Let us forget the Man-Pack."

"They shall be forgotten in a little while. Where does Hathi feed  to-night?"

"Where he chooses. Who can answer for the Silent One? But why? What is  there Hathi can do which we cannot?"

"Bid him and his three sons come here to me."

"But, indeed, and truly, Little Brother, it is not--it is not seemly  to say 'Come,' and 'Go,' to Hathi. Remember, he is the Master of the  Jungle, and before the Man-Pack changed the look on thy face, he taught  thee the Master-words of the Jungle."

"That is all one. I have a Master-word for him now. Bid him come to  Mowgli, the Frog: and if he does not hear at first, bid him come because  of the Sack of the Fields of Bhurtpore."

"The Sack of the Fields of Bhurtpore," Bagheera repeated two or three  times to make sure. "I go. Hathi can but be angry at the worst, and  I would give a moon's hunting to hear a Master-word that compels the  Silent One."

He went away, leaving Mowgli stabbing furiously with his skinning-knife  into the earth. Mowgli had never seen human blood in his life before  till he had seen, and--what meant much more to him--smelled Messua's  blood on the thongs that bound her. And Messua had been kind to  him, and, so far as he knew anything about love, he loved Messua as  completely as he hated the rest of mankind. But deeply as he loathed  them, their talk, their cruelty, and their cowardice, not for anything  the Jungle had to offer could he bring himself to take a human life, and  have that terrible scent of blood back again in his nostrils. His plan  was simpler, but much more thorough; and he laughed to himself when he  thought that it was one of old Buldeo's tales told under the peepul-tree  in the evening that had put the idea into his head.

"It WAS a Master-word," Bagheera whispered in his ear. "They were  feeding by the river, and they obeyed as though they were bullocks. Look  where they come now!"

Hathi and his three sons had arrived, in their usual way, without a  sound. The mud of the river was still fresh on their flanks, and Hathi  was thoughtfully chewing the green stem of a young plantain-tree that he  had gouged up with his tusks. But every line in his vast body showed to  Bagheera, who could see things when he came across them, that it was not  the Master of the Jungle speaking to a Man-cub, but one who was afraid  coming before one who was not. His three sons rolled side by side,  behind their father.

Mowgli hardly lifted his head as Hathi gave him "Good hunting." He kept  him swinging and rocking, and shifting from one foot to another, for  a long time before he spoke; and when he opened his mouth it was to  Bagheera, not to the elephants.

"I will tell a tale that was told to me by the hunter ye hunted to-day,"  said Mowgli. "It concerns an elephant, old and wise, who fell into a  trap, and the sharpened stake in the pit scarred him from a little above  his heel to the crest of his shoulder, leaving a white mark." Mowgli  threw out his hand, and as Hathi wheeled the moonlight showed a long  white scar on his slaty side, as though he had been struck with a  red-hot whip. "Men came to take him from the trap," Mowgli continued,  "but he broke his ropes, for he was strong, and went away till his  wound was healed. Then came he, angry, by night to the fields of  those hunters. And I remember now that he had three sons. These things  happened many, many Rains ago, and very far away--among the fields of  Bhurtpore. What came to those fields at the next reaping, Hathi?"

"They were reaped by me and by my three sons," said Hathi.

"And to the ploughing that follows the reaping?" said Mowgli.

"There was no ploughing," said Hathi.

"And to the men that live by the green crops on the ground?" said  Mowgli.

"They went away."

"And to the huts in which the men slept?" said Mowgli.

"We tore the roofs to pieces, and the Jungle swallowed up the walls,"  said Hathi.

"And what more?" said Mowgli.

"As much good ground as I can walk over in two nights from the east to  the west, and from the north to the south as much as I can walk over in  three nights, the Jungle took. We let in the Jungle upon five villages;  and in those villages, and in their lands, the grazing-ground and the  soft crop-grounds, there is not one man to-day who takes his food from  the ground. That was the Sack of the Fields of Bhurtpore, which I and  my three sons did; and now I ask, Man-cub, how the news of it came to  thee?" said Hathi.

"A man told me, and now I see even Buldeo can speak truth. It was well  done, Hathi with the white mark; but the second time it shall be done  better, for the reason that there is a man to direct. Thou knowest the  village of the Man-Pack that cast me out? They are idle, senseless, and  cruel; they play with their mouths, and they do not kill the weaker for  food, but for sport. When they are full-fed they would throw their own  breed into the Red Flower. This I have seen. It is not well that they  should live here any more. I hate them!"

"Kill, then," said the youngest of Hathi's three sons, picking up a tuft  of grass, dusting it against his fore-legs, and throwing it away, while  his little red eyes glanced furtively from side to side.

"What good are white bones to me?" Mowgli answered angrily. "Am I the  cub of a wolf to play in the sun with a raw head? I have killed Shere  Khan, and his hide rots on the Council Rock; but--but I do not know  whither Shere Khan is gone, and my stomach is still empty. Now I  will take that which I can see and touch. Let in the Jungle upon that  village, Hathi!"

Bagheera shivered, and cowered down. He could understand, if the worst  came to the worst, a quick rush down the village street, and a right and  left blow into a crowd, or a crafty killing of men as they ploughed in  the twilight; but this scheme for deliberately blotting out an entire  village from the eyes of man and beast frightened him. Now he saw why  Mowgli had sent for Hathi. No one but the long-lived elephant could plan  and carry through such a war.

"Let them run as the men ran from the fields of Bhurtpore, till we have  the rain-water for the only plough, and the noise of the rain on the  thick leaves for the pattering of their spindles--till Bagheera and I  lair in the house of the Brahmin, and the buck drink at the tank behind  the temple! Let in the Jungle, Hathi!"

"But I--but we have no quarrel with them, and it needs the red rage  of great pain ere we tear down the places where men sleep," said Hathi  doubtfully.

"Are ye the only eaters of grass in the Jungle? Drive in your peoples.  Let the deer and the pig and the nilghai look to it. Ye need never show  a hand's-breadth of hide till the fields are naked. Let in the Jungle,  Hathi!"

"There will be no killing? My tusks were red at the Sack of the Fields  of Bhurtpore, and I would not wake that smell again."

"Nor I. I do not wish even their bones to lie on the clean earth. Let  them go and find a fresh lair. They cannot stay here. I have seen and  smelled the blood of the woman that gave me food--the woman whom they  would have killed but for me. Only the smell of the new grass on their  door-steps can take away that smell. It burns in my mouth. Let in the  Jungle, Hathi!"

"Ah!" said Hathi. "So did the scar of the stake burn on my hide till we  watched the villages die under in the spring growth. Now I see. Thy war  shall be our war. We will let in the jungle!"

Mowgli had hardly time to catch his breath--he was shaking all over with  rage and hate before the place where the elephants had stood was empty,  and Bagheera was looking at him with terror.

"By the Broken Lock that freed me!" said the Black Panther at last. "Art  THOU the naked thing I spoke for in the Pack when all was young?  Master of the Jungle, when my strength goes, speak for me--speak for  Baloo--speak for us all! We are cubs before thee! Snapped twigs under  foot! Fawns that have lost their doe!"

The idea of Bagheera being a stray fawn upset Mowgli altogether, and he  laughed and caught his breath, and sobbed and laughed again, till he had  to jump into a pool to make himself stop. Then he swam round and round,  ducking in and out of the bars of the moonlight like the frog, his  namesake.

By this time Hathi and his three sons had turned, each to one point of  the compass, and were striding silently down the valleys a mile away.  They went on and on for two days' march--that is to say, a long sixty  miles--through the Jungle; and every step they took, and every wave of  their trunks, was known and noted and talked over by Mang and Chil and  the Monkey People and all the birds. Then they began to feed, and fed  quietly for a week or so. Hathi and his sons are like Kaa, the Rock  Python. They never hurry till they have to.

At the end of that time--and none knew who had started it--a rumour went  through the Jungle that there was better food and water to be found in  such and such a valley. The pig--who, of course, will go to the ends of  the earth for a full meal--moved first by companies, scuffling over the  rocks, and the deer followed, with the small wild foxes that live on  the dead and dying of the herds; and the heavy-shouldered nilghai moved  parallel with the deer, and the wild buffaloes of the swamps came after  the nilghai. The least little thing would have turned the scattered,  straggling droves that grazed and sauntered and drank and grazed again;  but whenever there was an alarm some one would rise up and soothe them.  At one time it would be Ikki the Porcupine, full of news of good feed  just a little farther on; at another Mang would cry cheerily and flap  down a glade to show it was all empty; or Baloo, his mouth full of  roots, would shamble alongside a wavering line and half frighten, half  romp it clumsily back to the proper road. Very many creatures broke back  or ran away or lost interest, but very many were left to go forward. At  the end of another ten days or so the situation was this. The deer and  the pig and the nilghai were milling round and round in a circle of  eight or ten miles radius, while the Eaters of Flesh skirmished round  its edge. And the centre of that circle was the village, and round the  village the crops were ripening, and in the crops sat men on what they  call machans--platforms like pigeon-perches, made of sticks at the top  of four poles--to scare away birds and other stealers. Then the deer  were coaxed no more. The Eaters of Flesh were close behind them, and  forced them forward and inward.

It was a dark night when Hathi and his three sons slipped down from the  Jungle, and broke off the poles of the machans with their trunks; they  fell as a snapped stalk of hemlock in bloom falls, and the men that  tumbled from them heard the deep gurgling of the elephants in their  ears. Then the vanguard of the bewildered armies of the deer broke down  and flooded into the village grazing-grounds and the ploughed fields;  and the sharp-hoofed, rooting wild pig came with them, and what the deer  left the pig spoiled, and from time to time an alarm of wolves would  shake the herds, and they would rush to and fro desperately, treading  down the young barley, and cutting flat the banks of the irrigating  channels. Before the dawn broke the pressure on the outside of the  circle gave way at one point. The Eaters of Flesh had fallen back and  left an open path to the south, and drove upon drove of buck fled along  it. Others, who were bolder, lay up in the thickets to finish their meal  next night.

But the work was practically done. When the villagers looked in the  morning they saw their crops were lost. And that meant death if they did  not get away, for they lived year in and year out as near to starvation  as the Jungle was near to them. When the buffaloes were sent to graze  the hungry brutes found that the deer had cleared the grazing-grounds,  and so wandered into the Jungle and drifted off with their wild mates;  and when twilight fell the three or four ponies that belonged to the  village lay in their stables with their heads beaten in. Only Bagheera  could have given those strokes, and only Bagheera would have thought of  insolently dragging the last carcass to the open street.

The villagers had no heart to make fires in the fields that night, so  Hathi and his three sons went gleaning among what was left; and where  Hathi gleans there is no need to follow. The men decided to live on  their stored seed-corn until the rains had fallen, and then to take  work as servants till they could catch up with the lost year; but as  the grain-dealer was thinking of his well-filled crates of corn, and the  prices he would levy at the sale of it, Hathi's sharp tusks were picking  out the corner of his mud-house, and smashing open the big wicker chest,  leeped with cow-dung, where the precious stuff lay.

When that last loss was discovered, it was the Brahmin's turn to speak.  He had prayed to his own Gods without answer. It might be, he said,  that, unconsciously, the village had offended some one of the Gods of  the Jungle, for, beyond doubt, the Jungle was against them. So they sent  for the head-man of the nearest tribe of wandering Gonds--little, wise,  and very black hunters, living in the deep Jungle, whose fathers came of  the oldest race in India--the aboriginal owners of the land. They made  the Gond welcome with what they had, and he stood on one leg, his bow in  his hand, and two or three poisoned arrows stuck through his top-knot,  looking half afraid and half contemptuously at the anxious villagers  and their ruined fields. They wished to know whether his Gods--the Old  Gods--were angry with them and what sacrifices should be offered. The  Gond said nothing, but picked up a trail of the Karela, the vine that  bears the bitter wild gourd, and laced it to and fro across the temple  door in the face of the staring red Hindu image. Then he pushed with his  hand in the open air along the road to Khanhiwara, and went back to his  Jungle, and watched the Jungle People drifting through it. He knew that  when the Jungle moves only white men can hope to turn it aside.

There was no need to ask his meaning. The wild gourd would grow where  they had worshipped their God, and the sooner they saved themselves the  better.

But it is hard to tear a village from its moorings. They stayed on as  long as any summer food was left to them, and they tried to gather nuts  in the Jungle, but shadows with glaring eyes watched them, and rolled  before them even at mid-day; and when they ran back afraid to their  walls, on the tree-trunks they had passed not five minutes before the  bark would be stripped and chiselled with the stroke of some great  taloned paw. The more they kept to their village, the bolder grew the  wild things that gambolled and bellowed on the grazing-grounds by the  Waingunga. They had no time to patch and plaster the rear walls of the  empty byres that backed on to the Jungle; the wild pig trampled them  down, and the knotty-rooted vines hurried after and threw their elbows  over the new-won ground, and the coarse grass bristled behind the vines  like the lances of a goblin army following a retreat. The unmarried men  ran away first, and carried the news far and near that the village was  doomed. Who could fight, they said, against the Jungle, or the Gods  of the Jungle, when the very village cobra had left his hole in the  platform under the peepul-tree? So their little commerce with the  outside world shrunk as the trodden paths across the open grew fewer  and fainter. At last the nightly trumpetings of Hathi and his three sons  ceased to trouble them; for they had no more to be robbed of. The crop  on the ground and the seed in the ground had been taken. The outlying  fields were already losing their shape, and it was time to throw  themselves on the charity of the English at Khanhiwara.

Native fashion, they delayed their departure from one day to another  till the first Rains caught them and the unmended roofs let in a flood,  and the grazing-ground stood ankle deep, and all life came on with a  rush after the heat of the summer. Then they waded out--men, women,  and children--through the blinding hot rain of the morning, but turned  naturally for one farewell look at their homes.

They heard, as the last burdened family filed through the gate, a crash  of falling beams and thatch behind the walls. They saw a shiny,  snaky black trunk lifted for an instant, scattering sodden thatch. It  disappeared, and there was another crash, followed by a squeal. Hathi  had been plucking off the roofs of the huts as you pluck water-lilies,  and a rebounding beam had pricked him. He needed only this to unchain  his full strength, for of all things in the Jungle the wild elephant  enraged is the most wantonly destructive. He kicked backward at a mud  wall that crumbled at the stroke, and, crumbling, melted to yellow  mud under the torrent of rain. Then he wheeled and squealed, and tore  through the narrow streets, leaning against the huts right and left,  shivering the crazy doors, and crumpling up the caves; while his  three sons raged behind as they had raged at the Sack of the Fields of  Bhurtpore.

"The Jungle will swallow these shells," said a quiet voice in the  wreckage. "It is the outer wall that must lie down," and Mowgli, with  the rain sluicing over his bare shoulders and arms, leaped back from a  wall that was settling like a tired buffalo.

"All in good time," panted Hathi. "Oh, but my tusks were red at  Bhurtpore; To the outer wall, children! With the head! Together! Now!"

The four pushed side by side; the outer wall bulged, split, and fell,  and the villagers, dumb with horror, saw the savage, clay-streaked  heads of the wreckers in the ragged gap. Then they fled, houseless and  foodless, down the valley, as their village, shredded and tossed and  trampled, melted behind them.

A month later the place was a dimpled mound, covered with soft, green  young stuff; and by the end of the Rains there was the roaring jungle in  full blast on the spot that had been under plough not six months before.
