A STRANGE MISTAKE (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Not wishing to be late at his cousin's party, which he understood  was to begin at five o'clock, Rusty Wren hurried along the bank of  Black Creek, while Mr. Frog did his best to keep pace with him.

Somewhat out of breath, the two arrived shortly at the home of Long  Bill Wren. And, to their surprise, they saw not the least sign of  any other guests.

"It looks as if we were the first to get here," Rusty Wren  remarked, as they drew near Long Bill's house in the reeds.

"Well, somebody has to be first, you know," the tailor observed  easily. "I always like to be early at a party," he added, "because  then I am sure of getting plenty of refreshments."

If there were no other guests to be seen, neither was there any  indication of a party about Long Bill's home. There was nothing to  eat anywhere in sight; and no flag, nor gay Chinese lantern, nor  decoration of any other kind adorned his house.

Rusty Wren had always thought his cousin's house a strange  dwelling. Made of coarse grasses and reed stalks, it was round,  like a big ball, with a doorway in one side. This queer building  was fastened among the reeds a little distance above the ground.  And it seemed to Rusty Wren that it must be a damp and unhealthful  place to live.

"It's odd that your cousin's not here to greet us," Mr. Frog  croaked.

The words were scarcely out of his large mouth when Long Bill  thrust his head and shoulders out of his door--for he had heard the  voices in his front yard. He had on a shocking old coat--not at all  the sort one would choose to wear when one expected guests.

"Well, well!" he exclaimed. "I'm glad to see you, Cousin Rusty. And  I'm certainly surprised, for it's more than a year since you've  paid me a visit."

"Aren't you glad to see me, too?" Mr. Frog piped up a bit  anxiously.

"Certainly--to be sure!" said Long Bill. "But I'm not so  surprised--though I understand that you usually attend a  singing-party about this time o' day."

"Yes!" said Mr. Frog. "But I'd much prefer to come to yours."

"My what?" inquired Long Bill Wren, as a puzzled look appeared upon  his face.

"Your party, of course!" Mr. Frog replied with a wide smile.

Now, Rusty Wren wished he had not called at Mr. Frog's shop at all.  If he had only come straight to his cousin's house, he thought that  he would have spared himself--and his cousin, too--a good deal of  trouble. And, since he didn't know what to say, he kept still for a  few moments and let the others do all the talking.

Meanwhile, Long Bill hopped briskly outside his house, and joined  them on the ground.

"My party!" he cried. "Why, I know of no party here! Somebody has  made a mistake. I haven't given a party for a year--just a year ago  to-day.... I invited you at that time," he told Rusty Wren, "but  you didn't come. And I never received any word from you about the  matter."

"That's strange!" said Rusty. "This is the first I ever heard of  the affair."

"I engaged Mr. Crow to take your invitation to Jolly Robin in the  orchard and ask him to give it to you," Long Bill informed his  bewildered cousin.

"That's just the way this invitation reached me yesterday!" Rusty  explained.

"Ah! I see it all now," said Long Bill. And he began to laugh  merrily. "Mr. Crow's poor memory is to blame for your mistake. He  forgot to deliver the message last year. And he happened to  remember it only yesterday. So the news reached you just twelve  months too late."

Although Long Bill Wren continued to laugh heartily, neither Mr.  Frog nor Rusty could manage even a faint smile. Having expected a  merry time and plenty to eat, they were both disappointed.

But Mr. Frog soon said that so far as he was concerned, he still  had a singing-party that he could attend, so he didn't feel sad  very long. And, after all, Rusty was glad to see his cousin, Long  Bill Wren. They had a pleasant chat together for almost an hour.  And Long Bill invited Rusty to stay to dinner.

Rusty thanked him and said, no! he must hasten home, because he had  to go to bed early, on account of having to awaken Farmer Green at  dawn the next morning.

When he returned to the old cherry tree Rusty had to answer a good  many questions. His wife wanted to know what had kept him so long,  and what Mr. Frog said, and what color his new Sunday coat was  going to be.

When she learned that her husband's visit to the tailor had been  all in vain, she looked very suspicious and said quickly:

"You haven't been at a party, have you?"

"No, indeed!" Rusty Wren replied. "I haven't gone to a party for  more than a year."

And he seemed quite indignant that his wife should have such a  strange idea in her head.



   THE END
