A STORY OF THE FOREST (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

"It is not the gay forms he meets in the fairy-tale which charm the  child, but a spiritual, invisible truth lying far deeper."--Froebel.

  Far away, in the depths of a great green rustling wood, there lived a  Fir-tree. She was tall and dark and fragrant; so tall that her topmost  plumes seemed waving about in the clouds, and her branches were so thick  and strong and close set that down below them on the ground it was dark  almost as night.

There were many other trees in the forest, as tall and grand as she,  and when they bent and bowed to each other, as the wind played in their  branches, you could hear a wonderful lovely sound, like the great organ  when it plays softly in the church.

Down below, under the trees, the ground was covered with a glossy brown  carpet of the sharp, needle-like leaves the fir-trees had let fall, and  on this carpet there were pointed brown fir cones lying, looking dry and  withered, and yet bearing under their scales many little seeds, hidden  away like very precious letters in their dainty envelopes.

Even on bright summer days this wood was cool and dark, and, as you  walked about on the soft brown carpet, you could hear the wonderful song  the pine needles made as they rubbed against each other; and perhaps far  away in the top of some tall tree you could hear the wood-thrush sing  out gladly.

All around the great Fir-tree, where her cones had dropped, a family  of young firs was growing up,--very tiny yet, so tiny you might have  crushed them as you walked, and not felt them under your foot.

The Fir-tree spread her thick branches over them, and kept off the  fierce wind and the bitter cold, and under her shelter they were growing  strong.

They were all fine little trees, but one of them, that stood quite apart  from the rest, was the finest of all, very straight and well shaped  and handsome. Every day he looked up at the mother-tree, and saw how  straight and strong she grew,--how the wind bent and waved her branches,  but did not stir her great trunk; and as he looked, he sent his own  rootlets farther down into the dark earth, and held his tiny head up  more proudly.

The other trees did not all try to grow strong and tall. Indeed, one of  them said, "Why should I try to grow? Who can see me here in this dark  wood? What good will it do for me to try? I can never be as fine and  strong as the mother-tree."

So he was unhappy and hung his head, and let the wind blow him further  and further over toward the ground; and as he did not care for his  rootlets, they lost their hold in the earth, and by and by he withered  quite away.

But our brave little Fir-tree grew on; and when a long time had gone by,  his head was on a level with his mother's lowest branches, and he could  listen and hear all the whispering and talking that went on among the  great trees. So he learned many things, for the trees were old and  wise; and the birds, who are such great travelers, had told them many  wonderful things that had happened in far-off lands.

And the Fir-tree asked his mother many, many questions. "Dear  mother-tree," he said, "shall we always live here? Shall I keep on  growing until I am a grand tall tree like you? And will you always be  with me?"

"Who knows!" said the mother-tree, rustling in all her branches. "If we  are stout-hearted, and grow strong in trunk and perfect in shape,  then perhaps we shall be taken away from the forest and made useful  somewhere,--and we want to be useful, little son."

It was about this time that the young Fir-tree made himself some music  that he used to whisper when the winds blew and rocked his branches.  This is the little song, but I cannot sing it as he did.

  SONG OF THE FIR-TREE.

Root grow thou long-er heart be thou strong-er;

 Let the sun bless me, soft-ly ca-

 ress me; Let rain-drops pat-ter,

 wind, my leaves scat-ter. My root must grow

 long-er, my heart must grow stronger.

  "Root, grow thou longer,

 Heart, be thou stronger;

 Let the sun bless me,

 Softly caress me;

 Let raindrops patter,

 Wind, my leaves scatter.

 My root must grow longer,

 My heart must grow stronger."

And one day, when he was singing this song to himself, some birds  fluttered near, pleased with the music, and as he seemed kind they began  to build their nest in his branches,

Then what a proud Fir-tree, that the birds should choose him to take  care of them! He would not play now with the wind as it came frolicking  by, but stood straight, that he might not shake the pretty soft nest.  And when the eggs were laid at last, all his leaves stroked each other  for joy, and the noise they made was so sweet that the mother-tree bent  over to see why he was so happy.

The mother-bird sat patiently on the nest all day, and when, now and  then, she flew away to rest her tired little legs, the father-bird came  to keep the eggs warm.

So the Fir-tree was never alone; and now he asked the birds some of the  many questions he had once asked his mother, "Tell me, dear birdies,"  he said, "what does the mother-tree mean? She says if I grow strong, I  shall be taken away to be useful somewhere. How can a Fir-tree be useful  if he is taken away from the forest where he was born?"

So the birds told him how he could be useful: how perhaps men might  take him for the mast of a ship, and fasten to him, strong and firm, the  great white sails that send the ship like a bird over the water; or that  he might be used to hold a bright flag, as it waved in the wind. Then  the mother-bird thought of the happy Christmas time, for the birds  and flowers and trees know all about it; and she told the Fir of the  Christmas greens that were cut in the forest; of the branches and boughs  that were used to make the houses fresh and bright; and of the Christmas  trees, on which gifts were hung for the children.

Now the Fir-tree had seen some children one day, and he knew about their  bright eyes, and their rosy cheeks, and their dear soft little hands.  The day they came into the woods, they had made a ring and danced about  him, and one little girl had held up her finger, and asked the others to  hush and hear the song he was singing.

So of all the thing's the birds had told him, the sweetest to him was  about the Christmas tree. If only he might be a Christmas tree, and have  the children dance about him again, and feel their presents among his  green branches!

So he did all that a little tree could do to grow strong in every part,  and each day he sang his song:&&

  "Root, grow thou longer,

 Heart, grow thou stronger;

 Sweet sunshine, bless me,

 Softly caress me;

 Cold raindrops, patter,

 Wind, my leaves scatter,

 My roots must grow longer,

 My heart must grow stronger,"

Soon the days began to grow cold. The birdlings who had been born in  the Fir-tree's branches had gone far away to the South. The father and  mother bird had gone too, and on the way had stopped to say good-by to  the brave little tree.

The white snow had fallen in gentle flakes, and covered the cones and  the glossy carpet of pine needles. All was still and shining and cold in  the forest, and the great trees seemed taller and darker than ever.

One day some men came into the wood with saws and ropes and axes, and  cut down many of the great trees, and among these was the mother-fir.  They fastened oxen to all the trees, and dragged them away, rustling and  waving, over the smooth snow.

The mother-tree had gone,--"gone to be useful," said the little Fir; and  though he missed her very much, and the world seemed very empty when he  looked up and no longer saw her thick branches and her strong trunk, yet  he was not unhappy, for he was a brave little Fir.

Still the days grew colder, and often the Fir-tree wondered if the  children who had made a ring and danced about him would remember him  when Christmas time came.

He could not grow, for the weather was too cold, and so he had the more  time for thinking. He thought of the birds, of the mother-tree, and,  most of all, of the little girl who had lifted her finger, and said,  "Hush! hear the Fir-tree sing."

Sometimes the days seemed long, and he sighed in all his branches, and  almost thought he would never be a Christmas tree.

But suddenly, one day, he heard something far away that sounded like the  ringing of Christmas bells. It was the children laughing and singing, as  they ran over the snow.

Nearer they came, and stood beside the Fir. "Yes," said the little girl,  "it is my very tree, my very singing tree!"

"Indeed," said the father, "it will be a good Christmas tree. See how  straight and well shaped it is."

Then the tree was glad; not proud, for he was a good little Fir, but  glad that they saw he had tried his best.

{Illustration: Not all firs can be Christmas trees.}

So they cut him down and carried him away on a great sled; away from the  tall dark trees, from the white shining snow-carpet at their feet, and  from all the murmuring and whispering that go on within the forest.

The little trees stood on tiptoe and waved their green branches for  "Good-by," and the great trees bent their heads to watch him go.

"Not all firs can be Christmas trees," said they; "only those who grow  their best."

The good Fir-tree stood in the children's own room. Round about his feet  were flowers and mosses and green boughs. From his branches hung toys  and books and candies, and at the end of each glossy twig was a bright  glittering Christmas candle.

The doors were slowly opened; the children came running in; and when  they saw the shining lights, and the Christmas tree proudly holding  their presents, they made a ring, and danced about him, singing.

And the Fir-tree was very happy!
