A STRUTTER(Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  All the hen turkeys thought Turkey Proudfoot a wonderful creature. They  said he had the most beautiful tail on the farm. When he spread it and  strutted about Farmer Green's place the hen turkeys were sure to nudge  one another and say, "Ahem! Isn't he elegant?"

But the rest of the farmyard folk made quite different remarks about  him. They declared Turkey Proudfoot to be a silly, vain gobbler, noisy  and quarrelsome.

Now, there was truth in what everybody thought and said about this  lordly person, Turkey Proudfoot. He did have a huge tail, when he chose  to spread it; and his feathers shone with a greenish, coppery, bronzy  glitter that might easily have turned the head of anybody that boasted  such beautiful colors. Certainly the hen turkeys turned their heads--and  craned their necks--whenever Turkey Proudfoot came near them. And when  he spoke to them, saying "_Gobble, gobble, gobble!_" in a loud tone,  they were always pleased.

The hen turkeys seemed to find that remark, "_Gobble, gobble, gobble!_"  highly interesting. But everybody else complained about the noise that  Turkey Proudfoot made, and said that if he must gobble they wished he  would go off by himself, where people didn't have to listen to him.

And nobody but the hen turkeys liked the way Turkey Proudfoot walked. At  every step he took he raised a foot high in the air, acting for all the  world as if the ground wasn't good enough for him to walk upon. And when  he wasn't picking up a seed, or a bit of grain, or an insect off the  ground, he held his head very high. Often Turkey Proudfoot seemed to  look right past his farmyard neighbors, as if he were gazing at  something in the next field and didn't see them. But they soon learned  that that was only an odd way of his. Really, he saw about everything  that went on. If anybody happened to grin at him Turkey Proudfoot was  sure to take notice at once and try to pick a quarrel.

After all, perhaps it wasn't strange that Turkey Proudfoot should act as  he did. Being the ruler of Farmer Green's whole flock of turkeys, he was  somewhat spoiled. All the hen turkeys did about as he told them to do.  Or if they didn't, Turkey Proudfoot thought that they obeyed his orders.  And the younger gobblers as well had to mind him. If they didn't, Turkey  Proudfoot fought them until they were ready to gobble for mercy.

Having whipped the younger gobblers a good many times, Turkey Proudfoot  firmly believed that he could whip anything or anybody. And there was  nobody on the farm, almost, at whom he hadn't dashed at least once. He  had even attacked Farmer Green. But Farmer Green quickly taught him  better. A blow on the head from a stout stick bowled Turkey Proudfoot  over and he never tried to fight Farmer Green again.

That proved that Turkey Proudfoot wasn't as empty-headed as some of his  neighbors thought him. It was possible to get a lesson into his head,  even if one had to knock it into his skull with a club.
