A STROKE OF LUCK (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  JASPER'S fun would have been spoiled if he hadn't had a stroke of good  fortune. Since he was no longer leading the nutting party he wanted to  prevent his friends from following Noisy Jake to the place where the oak  trees grew, to have an acorn hunt.

It was no more than anybody could expect that Jasper should feel sulky.  It had been his party in the first place. So, of course, he didn't enjoy  seeing somebody else take the lead away from him. Most unhappy he was,  as he hurried along the mountain-side, when he happened, all at once,  to catch sight of a huge, grayish-brown figure, half hidden among some  hemlock boughs. Jasper Jay knew right away that it was Mr. Solomon Owl.

"Stop! stop!" Jasper cried to his friends. "Wait a bit! Here's some  fun!"

So the nutting party checked their flight and returned, while Jasper  pointed out Solomon Owl's motionless form to them.

They forgot all about the acorn hunt, for the time being, because there  was nothing they liked better than teasing Solomon Owl--when there were  enough of them. In case any of the blue-coated rascals met Mr. Owl  alone, he was most polite to him, for Solomon was not only big and  strong but he had sharp talons and a hooked beak.

Those thirteen blue jays, however, knew that they had little to fear  from the solemn old chap, so long as they kept out of reach of his  claws.

They began jeering at Solomon Owl. And some of them even tried to mock  his queer cry, "_Whoo-whoo-too-whoo-too-o-o!_" The woods echoed with  their hoots. And Noisy Jake shouted:

"This is luck! Aren't you all glad I found him?"

Now, of course, Jake had not found Solomon Owl. If it hadn't been for  Jasper Jay no one would have known he was there. And Jasper was just  about to remind Jake of his mistake when he happened to think of  something that made him change his mind. It occurred to Jasper that if  Noisy Jake wanted to think he was still the leader of the party perhaps  it was just as well to let him. Jake always talked so much, in such a  loud tone, that Solomon Owl would be sure to know him.

And Jasper thought he could have plenty of fun himself, teasing Solomon  and not saying a word. Then--so Jasper believed--then Solomon Owl  wouldn't know that Jasper was in the party at all.

You see, Johnnie Green was not the only person who held that Solomon Owl  couldn't see in the daytime. Everybody knew that his big, round eyes  were keen enough in the dark. But in the daylight he usually sat quite  still in a tree and stared as if he saw nothing at all.

Well, that was just what Solomon Owl was doing then. He said never a  word. And he scarcely moved, except to turn his head helplessly now and  then, and blink, while his tormentors flew as close to him as they dared  and hooted loudly at him.

Jasper and his friends made enough noise to scare even a bigger bird  than Solomon Owl. And they said a good many rude things to him, too.

"How are Farmer Green's chickens this fall?" Noisy Jake asked him in a  loud voice, while Jasper Jay quietly amused himself by dropping hemlock  seeds upon Solomon's head.

Still Solomon Owl made no remarks at all. But he was thinking deeply.  And though some people claimed that he was not nearly so wise as he  looked, there were some things that he knew just as well as anyone else.

But Jasper Jay was not aware of that.
