A STRANGE GOBBLE (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  "Gobble, _gobble, gobble, gobble!_"

Turkey Proudfoot stood in the farmyard and craned his neck in every  direction. That sound certainly was close at hand. Yet there wasn't a  turkey cock anywhere in sight, either on the ground or in the trees.

Just for a moment Turkey Proudfoot was worried.

"That wasn't _my_ gobble, was it?" he asked the rooster. "If I gobbled,  I didn't know it."

"No! You didn't gobble," said the rooster, "though I must say that  gobbling sounded a good deal like yours."

"_Gobble, gobble, gobble, gobble!_"

"There it goes again!" cried Turkey Proudfoot. He was almost frantic.  "How can I fight that fellow if I can't see him?" he cried. He looked up  at the roof of the barn; but there was no one there except the gilded  rooster that told which way the wind blew. He looked up at the roof of  the farmhouse.

"You don't suppose that fellow's hiding in the chimney, do you?" he  asked.

"No doubt he is," said the rooster. "If I were you I'd fly up there and  catch him."

"The roof's high for one of my weight to fly to," Turkey Proudfoot  remarked.

"Still, I could flap up to the top of the woodshed and get to the roof  of the house from there.... I'll take a look and see how high the house  seems when I'm near it."

[Illustration: Polly Imitates Turkey Proudfoot's Gobble. (_Page_ 42)]

To the rooster's delight, Turkey Proudfoot started towards the house.  The rooster promptly called to all the hens to "come quick," because  Turkey Proudfoot was going to fly to the roof of the farmhouse. "I hope  he won't get into trouble," said the rooster with a chuckle. "It would  be a pity if he fell down the chimney."

In spite of his words, the rooster didn't look at all uneasy. Indeed,  the only thing that worried him was the fear that Turkey Proudfoot  _wouldn't_ get himself into a scrape. But he thought it more polite not  to say exactly what he hoped.

Turkey Proudfoot stalked up to the farmhouse and stopped near the  piazza. He was gazing upwards and measuring the height of the roof with  his eye when all at once a loud "_Gobble, gobble, gobble, gobble!_"  almost tipped him over backward.

The outcry came from the farmhouse. There was no doubt of that. But it  didn't come from the roof, nor the chimney.

Turkey Proudfoot stared at the windows and the doors and saw no one  except Miss Kitty Cat, dozing on a window sill. Then something moved  beneath the piazza ceiling. It was a cage, which swayed as a green  figure clung to the wires on one side of it.

"I'm a handsome bird," a voice informed Turkey Proudfoot. "_Gobble,  gobble, gobble, gobble!_"

For once in his life Turkey Proudfoot hadn't a word to say. For the  moment he was struck dumb.

At last he found his voice. "Who are you?" he bellowed.

"Ha! ha! ha! ha!"

"Don't laugh at me!" cried Turkey Proudfoot.

"Polly wants a cracker," said the green bird.

A few quick steps brought Turkey Proudfoot upon the piazza, nearer the  cage where the annoying green person swung and made queer, throaty  noises--sounds which only angered Turkey Proud foot the more.

Turkey Proudfoot took a little run and rose into the air, to crash  against the cage and then fall flapping upon the piazza floor.

The green person shrieked. And the hired man, with an axe in his hand,  peered out of the woodshed door.

"Here, you old gobbler! You leave our Polly alone!" he called. And he  ran out and gave Turkey Proudfoot a sharp rap with the axe helve.

Turkey Proudfoot ran off and hid behind the barn and sulked.

"There's a bird around here," he muttered, "that mocks Miss Kitty Cat;  and they call him a Cat Bird. Now, here's a bird that mocks me; so I  should think they'd call him a Turkey Bird. But they don't. I heard the  hired man call him Pretty Polly.

"Pretty Polly indeed!" Turkey Proudfoot sniffed. "That creature is  nothing but a bunch of green feathers and a loud voice."
