A SWIMMER (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Henrietta Hen ran as fast as she could down the bank and stood as near  the water as she dared, cackling loudly and flapping her wings.

Her child, who was swimming in the duck-pond, seemed to have no intention  of minding her. Nor did he seem to have any intention of drowning; and as  for getting his feet wet, he acted as if he liked _that_.

"What shall I do? Oh, what shall I do?" Henrietta Hen squawked. She made  so much noise that some of her neighbors came a-running, to see what was  the matter. And as soon as they discovered what had happened they began  to laugh.

"We may as well tell you," they said to Henrietta Hen, "that that chap  out there is a duckling. The water won't hurt him."

Henrietta Hen gasped and gaped. She was astonished. But she soon pulled  herself together. And it was just like her to begin to boast.

"See!" she cried to her friends, and waved a wing toward the water with  an air of pride. "There isn't one of you that has a child that can beat  him swimming."

"I should hope not!" said Polly Plymouth Rock with a shrug of her fine  shoulders. And all the others agreed that they wanted no swimmers in  their families.

Henrietta Hen announced that she was sorry for them. "Every brood," she  declared, "should have at least one swimmer in it." She began to strut up  and down the edge of the duck-pond, clucking in a most overbearing  fashion. Really, she had never felt quite so important before--not even  when her first brood pecked their way out of their shells.

"There's nothing quite like swimming," Henrietta Hen remarked with a  silly smirk. "If it weren't for getting my feet wet I'd be tempted to  learn myself. No doubt my son could teach me."

"Your son!" the old white hen sniffed. "He's not your son, Henrietta Hen.  Somebody played a joke on you. Somebody put a duck's egg under you while  you were hatching your eggs. And I think I can guess who it was that did  it."

For just a moment Henrietta Hen stood still. The news almost took her  breath away. Her comb trembled on the top of her head. She even stopped  clucking. And she looked from one to another of her companions as if in  hopes of finding one face, at least, that looked doubtful.... Alas!  Everybody appeared to agree with old Whitey.

"If this is so," Henrietta muttered at last, "it's strange nobody ever  noticed before that there was a duckling in my brood."

"We knew from the very first!" Polly Plymouth Rock told her. "You were  the only one on the farm that didn't see that one of your family was  different from the rest."

All this time the young duckling was swimming further and further away.  He seemed to have forgotten all about his foster mother.

Henrietta Hen took one long last look at him. She guessed that she might  have stood there forever cackling for him to come back and he wouldn't  have paid the slightest heed to her.

Then she gathered her children--her really own--about her. "Come!" she  said to them, "We'll go back home now."

"What about him?" they demanded, pointing to the truant duckling who was  bobbing about on the rippling water. "Aren't you going to make him come,  too?"

"No!" said their mother. "We're well rid of him. He has been more trouble  to me than all the rest of you.... To tell the truth, I never liked him  very well."
