A TALK WITH MR. MEADOW MOUSE (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  THE next time she saw Mr. Meadow Mouse Mrs. Robin gave him Grandfather  Mole's message. "He says," said she, "he'd like to have a talk with  you."

"Does he?" Mr. Meadow Mouse exclaimed. "Now I wonder what he has to say!  I returned his umbrella to him, after the rain. So it can't be about  that."

"If I wanted to know, I'd go and find Grandfather Mole," Mrs. Robin  suggested tartly.

Being a mild sort of person, Mr. Meadow Mouse thanked Mrs. Robin  politely, both for the message and for the advice. And then, scampering  to a certain spot that he knew, near the fence, he disappeared through  an opening into the ground. It was one of Grandfather Mole's doorways.  Mr. Meadow Mouse did not hesitate to use it, being one of those  fortunate folk that are quite at home anywhere. It made little  difference to him whether he was above the ground or in it. And aside  from Grandfather Mole and his own family there was no one that knew his  way about Grandfather Mole's galleries as well as Mr. Meadow Mouse.

To be sure, he had some trouble in finding the old gentleman, there were  so many different passages in which to look for him. But at last Mr.  Meadow Mouse met Grandfather Mole in a long tunnel that followed a row  of newly planted corn.

"Ah, ha!" Grandfather Mole cried. "There's something I want to say to  you."

"So I hear!" Mr. Meadow Mouse replied a bit anxiously, for Grandfather  Mole sounded none too pleasant.

"You've been getting me into trouble with old Mr. Crow," Grandfather  Mole complained. "He thinks I've been eating the seed corn that Farmer  Green planted. And if I told him that it was you that's done it, and  that you've been using my galleries to reach the hills of corn, Mr. Crow  would never believe what I said."

"It looks bad for you, doesn't it?" said Mr. Meadow Mouse more  cheerfully.

Somehow his remark displeased Grandfather Mole.

"You'd better be careful what you say!" he warned Mr. Meadow Mouse. "If  you make me angry it will go hard with you."

Now, Grandfather Mole was known to be a terrible fighter when aroused.  And Mr. Meadow Mouse had no liking for a fight with any one. So he  moved backward a few steps and made ready to run.

"I'm sorry if I have caused you trouble," he said. "Couldn't you explain  to Mr. Crow that you have tunnelled into the hills of corn in order to  catch the grubs that would eat the corn if you didn't eat them first?  Can't you tell him that you are helping the corn crop, instead of  ruining it?"

Grandfather Mole shook his head.

"You're not much acquainted with Mr. Crow," he replied. "If he has made  up his mind that I'm stealing corn nothing I could say would change his  opinion."

"Can't I help you in some way?" Mr. Meadow Mouse asked. "I'd do almost  anything, because you've let me use your galleries."

Grandfather Mole pondered for a time.

"Perhaps there is a way you can help," he said at last. "If you'll  manage somehow to let Mr. Crow catch you in one of these hills, with  your mouth full of corn, he'd know that you were the guilty party."

Mr. Meadow Mouse paled at the thought of such a situation. And his legs  shook beneath him. "Oh! I--I couldn't do that!" he stammered. "Can't you  think of some other way?"

"Yes, I can!" Grandfather replied. "I'll let him catch me in a hill of  corn."

"With corn in your mouth?" Mr. Meadow Mouse inquired eagerly.

"No!" said Grandfather Mole. "With _you_ in my mouth!" When he chose,  Grandfather Mole could be very spry. And as he said those words he made  a quick rush toward Mr. Meadow Mouse.

Then there was a great scurrying down there in the dark.
