A TERRIBLE BLUNDER (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

WHEN the beautiful Betsy Butterfly turned her gaze on him, DaddyLonglegs couldn't help wishing that he had worn his new coat that day.However, he straightened his necktie carefully and tried to look as wellas he could.

"So you've seen me eating butter, have you?" Betsy Butterfly asked him.

"Not _eating_ it!" he corrected her. "I've seen you _standing_ on it.And your face was hidden in it, too."

Mrs. Ladybug shot a triumphant glance at the crowd, of which she andBetsy Butterfly and Daddy Longlegs were the center.

"What have you to say now, my fine lady?" she demanded of Betsy with asneer.

And still Betsy Butterfly was quite unruffled.

"Where did you see me doing that?" she asked Daddy Longlegs pleasantlyenough.

"I object!" Mrs. Ladybug interrupted hastily. "You needn't answer herquestion," she advised Daddy Longlegs. "I know her tricks! She'll keepus talking here until we forget what our errand was!"

But Daddy Longlegs paid no attention to Mrs. Ladybug's advice.

"I saw you in this meadow," he explained.

And Mrs. Ladybug began to look somewhat worried.

"Come!" she cried. "Let's all go home now. We've warned her; and we'llleave her to think over what she's done.... I hope--" Mrs. Ladybugadded, turning to Betsy Butterfly--"I hope you'll decide to turn over anew leaf."

"Why, that's exactly what she did, that time when I saw her!" DaddyLonglegs shouted. "While I was watching her I saw her turn over a leaf.So what's the use of her turning over another."

And now it was Mrs. Ladybug's turn to look amazed and bewildered.

"I don't know what you're talking about," she snapped, glaring at DaddyLonglegs. "And I don't believe you know, yourself."

"Oh! yes, I do!" he retorted shrilly.

"Butter has no leaves," said Mrs. Ladybug with a knowing air. "I sawheaps and heaps of it in Farmer Green's buttery yesterday. And therewasn't a leaf on it."

"How about eggs, then?" shouted somebody in the crowd. It was stupidBuster Bumblebee! And of course nobody paid any heed to his sillyquestion.

As he stared at Mrs. Ladybug dully Daddy Longlegs let his mouth fallwide open.

"Why, what do you mean?" he demanded at last. "You and I aren't talkingabout the same sort of butter at all! You're describing the kind ofbutter that Mrs. Green makes at the farmhouse."

"And what, pray tell, have you been talking about all this time?" Mrs.Ladybug gasped.

"The butter-and-eggs in the meadow!" Daddy Longlegs informed her. "Isuppose you know the plant, don't you?"

"I've heard of it," Mrs. Ladybug replied. "But I doubt if there is sucha thing."

"And I say there is!" Buster Bumblebee clamored. "We Bumblebees are veryfond of butter-and-eggs. And we're about the only field people thatknow how to open a blossom and reach its nectar."

Little Mrs. Ladybug waited to hear no more.

"You've made a terrible blunder!" she told Daddy Longlegs hurriedly. Andbefore he could answer her she had hastened away.

Like many another jealous body, Mrs. Ladybug had behaved very foolishly.And it was no wonder that she wanted to get away from the crowd.

She didn't even beg Betsy Butterfly's pardon for calling her a thief.But all the rest of the field people realized at last that Betsy was nothief.

The butter-and-eggs plant, they were well aware, was as free as theclover, or the milk-weed blossoms, or any other of the wild flowers.Everybody knew that Farmer Green laid no claim to them, though they didgrow in his meadow.

And when Betsy Butterfly thanked Daddy Longlegs for his explanation hewished more than ever that he had worn his new coat that day--and hisnew hat, too.
