A TERRIBLE FRIGHT (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  It was the very next night after old dog Spot had treed Fatty Coon in  the big oak near the cornfield. They had finished their evening meal at  Farmer Green's house. The cows were milked, the horses had been fed, the  chickens had all gone to roost. And Farmer Green looked up at the moon,  rising from behind Blue Mountain.

"We'll go coon-hunting again to-night," he said to Johnnie and the hired  man. "The corn has brought the coons up from the swamp. We'll start as  soon as it grows a little darker."

Well--after a while they set out for the cornfield. And sure enough! old  Spot soon began to bark.

"He's treed!" said Farmer Green, pretty soon. And they all hurried over  to the edge of the woods, where Spot had chased a coon up into a tall  chestnut tree. In the moonlight they could see the coon quite plainly.  "Another little feller!" cried Farmer Green. "I declare, all the coons  that come to the cornfield seem to be young ones. This one's no bigger  than the one we saw last night."

Now, although Farmer Green never guessed it, it was Fatty Coon who was  up there in the tall chestnut. He had run almost to the woods this time,  before he had to take to a tree. In fact, if Spot hadn't been quite so  close to him Fatty could have reached the woods, and then he would have  just jumped from one tree to another. But there were no trees near  enough the big chestnut for that. Fatty had to stay right there and wait  for those men to pass on. He wasn't afraid. He felt perfectly safe in  his big tree. And he only smiled when Johnnie Green said to his father--

"I wish I had that young coon. He'd make a fine pet."

"A pet!" exclaimed Farmer Green. "You remember that pet fox you had,  that stole my chickens?"

"Oh, I'd be careful," Johnnie promised. "Besides, don't you think we  ought to catch him, so he won't eat any more corn?"

Farmer Green smiled. He had been a boy himself, once upon a time, and he  had not forgotten the pet coon that he had owned when he was just about  Johnnie's age.

"All right!" he said at last. "I'll give you one more chance, Johnnie.  But you'll have to see that this young coon doesn't kill any of my  poultry."

Johnnie promised that nothing of the sort should happen. And then his  father and the hired man picked up their axes; and standing on opposite  sides of the tall chestnut tree, they began to chop.

How the chips did fly! At the very first blow Fatty knew that this was  an entirely different sort of chopping from that which Johnnie had  attempted the night before. The great tree shook as if it knew that it  would soon come crashing down upon the ground.

And as for Fatty Coon, he could not see but that he must fall when the  tree did. He, too, shivered and shook. And he wrapped himself all the  way around a limb and hung on as tight as ever he could.
