A TERRIBLE PERSON (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  THE rats and the mice thought that Miss Kitty Cat was a terrible person.  She was altogether too fond of hunting them. They agreed, however, that  in one way it was pleasant to have her about the farmhouse. When she  washed her face, while sitting on the doorsteps, they knew--so they  said!--that it was going to rain. And then Mrs. Rat never would let her  husband leave home without taking his umbrella.

As a rule Miss Kitty Cat didn't look at all frightful. Almost always she  appeared quite unruffled, going about her business in a quiet way and  making no fuss over anything. Of course when old dog Spot chased--and  cornered--her, she was quite a different sort of creature. Then she  arched her back, puffed her tail out to twice its usual size, and spat  fiercely at Spot. He learned not to get within reach of her sharp claws,  when she behaved in that fashion. For old Spot had a tender nose. And no  one knew it better than Miss Kitty Cat.

Around the farmhouse she was politeness itself--when there was anybody  to observe her. If her meals were late she never clamored, as Johnnie  Green sometimes did. To be sure, she might remind Mrs. Green gently, by  plaintive mewing, that she had not had her saucer of milk. But she was  always careful not to be rude about it. And though Miss Kitty liked a  warm place in winter, she never crowded anybody else away from the fire.  She crept under the kitchen range, where no one else cared to sit. And  there she would doze by the hour--especially after she had enjoyed a  hearty meal.

On summer nights, however, when she loved to hunt out of doors, Miss  Kitty Cat was far from appearing sleepy. She roamed about the fields, or  crept through the tree-tops with a stealthy tread and a tigerish working  of her tail. Folk smaller than Miss Kitty never cared to meet her at  such times. They knew that she would spring upon them if she had a  chance. So they took good care to keep out of her way. And if they  caught sight of her when she had her hunting manner they always gave  the alarm in their own fashion, warning their friends to beware of the  monster Miss Kitty Cat, because she was abroad and in a dangerous mood.

Johnnie Green liked Miss Kitty. Often she would come to him and rub  against him and purr, fairly begging him to stroke her back. Unless he  pulled her tail at such times she kept her claws carefully out of sight  and basked under Johnnie's petting.

If he had been her size and she had been his, Miss Kitty Cat might not  have been so harmless. She might have played with Johnnie, as she  sometimes played with a mouse. But Johnnie Green never stopped to think  of anything like that. And if he had, he would have thought it a great  joke. He would have laughed at the idea of Miss Kitty Cat holding him  beneath her paw.
