A TIGHT FIT (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Now, a certain thing happened that made Mr. Crow change his mind about  staying North for the winter. It had something to do with nuts, and  Frisky Squirrel, and Sandy Chipmunk. But that is another story; and  you may already have heard it.

Anyhow, Mr. Crow suddenly decided that he would have to fly southward,  after all. He was disappointed, because he didn't like the thought of  having to make so long a journey. Moreover, he had his new blue coat with  the yellow spots, which Mr. Frog had made for him. It was a handsome  coat. And everybody said it was very becoming to Mr. Crow. But he knew it  was altogether too warm to wear to his home in the South where the  weather was sure to be mild.

"I'll have to leave my new coat behind," he said to himself in a sad  voice. "It's almost too heavy to wear even here, though it is fall. I  hate to do it; but I'd better take it off and hide it somewhere. There  might be some cold days next spring when I'd be glad of a thick, warm  coat."

So the old gentleman started to unbutton his new coat, which he had worn  all day, ever since Mr. Frog had slipped it on him early in the morning.  Anyone might think that it would have been an easy matter to unbutton the  coat, for Mr. Frog had sewed a double row of big brown buttons down the  front of it. But for some time Mr. Crow fumbled with one of them in vain.

"Ha!" he exclaimed at last. "This is stupid of me! I'm trying to unbutton  the wrong row of buttons." Then he fumbled with one of the buttons of the  other row. But strange to say, he was no more successful than before. He  struggled with all the buttons in that row (there were five of them). And  then he tried the other five, one after another.

Mr. Crow couldn't understand it. He wanted more than ever to take the  coat off, because his efforts to unbutton it had made him quite warm.

"I shall have get somebody to help me," he said at last. "It may be that  my eyesight is failing--though I haven't noticed before that there was  anything the matter with it.... There's my cousin, Jasper Jay! I'll ask  him to unbutton my coat." And he called to Jasper, who had just alighted  on a stump not far away.

To Mr. Crow's dismay, his cousin refused to assist him.

"I know you too well," said Jasper Jay. "You want to play some trick on  me. If the buttons were on the back of your coat I might help you. But  they're right in front of you; and they're so big that a blind person  couldn't help finding them, even on the darkest night.... No! You can't  fool me this time!"

"Very well!" Mr. Crow croaked. "If you won't help me, there are plenty of  other people who'll be glad to." And he flew away in something very like  a temper.

To Mr. Crow's surprise he couldn't find anyone that would unbutton his  new coat for him; like Jasper Jay, everybody was afraid that Mr. Crow  meant to play a trick on him.

Mr. Crow was beginning to be frightened. He had called on all his friends  in Pleasant Valley except one. And if that one should refuse, Mr. Crow  didn't know what he could do. He had liked his spotted coat. But now he  began to hate it. And he wanted to slip out of it and never see it again.

So Mr. Crow hurried over to the swamp where Fatty Coon lived.
