A WATCHER AND A WORKER (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

Benny Badger searched for some time before he found a Ground Squirrel'shole that looked as if its owner had finished it only a day or twobefore.

The place was so far from the spot where Benny had left Mr. Coyote thathe did not believe he could call loudly enough for his helper to hearhim.

For a few moments Benny thought that perhaps he ought to go back andtell Mr. Coyote that he had found a good place to dig. But he soonchanged his mind.

"I'll just begin digging and say nothing," he remarked to himself. "Andperhaps I can catch this Ground Squirrel without Mr. Coyote's help."

So he set to work. But he hadn't dug very far into the hole before heheard Mr. Coyote's voice close behind him. That sly fellow had beenfollowing him all the time.

"I hope the owner of this hole is at home," Mr. Coyote ventured.

At those words Benny Badger backed out of the hole and turned around.

"I'll let you dig a while," he said generously.

Mr. Coyote thanked him. But he answered that he couldn't think ofaccepting Benny Badger's offer.

"I know you would be disappointed not to do the digging yourself," heexplained. "And besides, you're a better digger than I am. So I'll letyou tear this tunnel open, while I go around to the back door andwatch. . . . You know, I have a very sharp eye."

Benny Badger looked at Mr. Coyote narrowly. It occurred to him that_both_ Mr. Coyote's eyes were very sharp. Furthermore, his nose wassharp, too. And so were his teeth. Yes! on the whole, Benny thought, Mr.Coyote appeared to be an exceedingly sharp person.

"Very well!" Benny told him at last. "I'll do the digging, gladly--for Ineed the practice that it will give me. You see, I haven't dug more thana half-dozen holes to-night."

Then he thrust his head into the opening he had already made. But beforehe had begun to throw more dirt behind him he pulled his head out againand called to his helper, who had moved a few steps away.

"If the Ground Squirrel comes out through his back door, please call meat once!" he cried.

Mr. Coyote nodded his head over his shoulder and smiled.

"I will," he agreed. "And I'll ask you not to forget to dig hard,because you know I'll be watching hard. And it wouldn't be fair for oneof us to do less work than the other."

Benny Badger replied that in his opinion Mr. Coyote's statement was inevery way reasonable.

And then he began to dig.

Benny would have made better time had he not stopped every few minutesto listen; for he did not want to miss hearing Mr. Coyote's call.

But his ears caught nothing more than a chuckle from the spot where Mr.Coyote sat on his haunches in the grass, watching.

[Illustration: Mr. Owl greets Benny very coldly.]

"I can stand his chuckling--if only he won't sing!" Benny said tohimself.
