A WARNING (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Timothy Turtle's visit at the beaver pond was just like all of his  outings. Wherever he went he was so disagreeable and snappish that there  wasn't a single person in the whole village that didn't wish Timothy had  stayed away from that place.

He was forever grumbling, complaining that the fishing was poor in the  pond. And as for frogs, he declared that he hadn't seen even one.

"Why anybody wants to live here is more than I can understand." That was  what Timothy Turtle told everyone he met. And of course it was a poor  way of making himself welcome.

"Why do you come here, if you don't like our pond?" people asked him.

"It's a change for me," was Timothy's reply. "After I've spent a week  with you I'll be pretty glad to get back home again. And I won't want to  go on another excursion for a whole year--or maybe two.

"It's twenty years since I was here before. And I sha'n't care to come  again for forty, at least."

Now, such dreadfully rude remarks hurt the Beaver family's feelings. And  when Timothy Turtle seized a fat lady by the tail one day and wouldn't  let her go until sunset, her feelings were hurt most of all. She cried  that she had never been so insulted in all her life.

Timothy Turtle merely said that she ought not to object. He explained  that he had been _giving her a rest_--for of course she couldn't cut  down a tree, nor work upon the dam that held the water in the pond,  while he clung fast to her tail.

Well, this fat lady happened to be Brownie Beaver's mother. And after  her disagreeable experience with the stranger, Brownie made up his mind  that he _would make Timothy Turtle work_. That was the worst punishment  he could think of.

Whenever the members of the Beaver family were not sleeping, or eating,  either they were gathering food by cutting down trees, or they were  mending their dam.

The dam always had leaks here and there. And sooner or later every one  of them had to be stopped, before it grew so big that the water would  rush through it and tear a hole so great that the pond would be drained  dry.

During his stay among the Beavers Timothy Turtle often crawled on top  of the dam and stretched himself out and watched the Beavers at their  task. He said that if there was one thing that he liked to see more than  another it was "a gang of men working." But he complained that they  ought to work in the daytime, when the sun was shining, because then it  would have been "much pleasanter for him."

"Don't you want to help us?" asked the brisk fellow who had told  Grandaddy Beaver that he thought Timothy Turtle ought to go to work.

That question actually made Timothy snort.

"_Me work_?" he snapped scornfully, as he glared at the speaker.

Everybody knew what he meant. And everybody knew how Timothy felt, too,  when he edged along the dam and made a savage pass at the plump  gentleman who had spoken to him.

[Illustration: Timothy began to climb the steep bluff.]

Luckily the brisk Beaver jumped aside before Timothy Turtle's jaws  closed on him. And he did not say another word to the stranger during  the rest of his stay at the pond.

But Timothy Turtle became quite talkative. He stopped all he met--old  and young both--and warned them that nobody need try to get him to work,  for he never had worked, and he never intended to.
