A WHINING CALLER (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  "I certainly hope you aren't going to disappoint me?" Mr. Nighthawk  whined, as he looked hungrily at Kiddie Katydid. "Please, please jump  for me--just once!" he begged. "Here I've come all the way across the  meadow on purpose to see what a fine jumper you are! And I shall feel  very unhappy if you don't perform for me."

But Kiddie Katydid refused to budge.

"I hadn't intended to do any leaping to-night," he told Mr. Nighthawk.  "And if I jumped for you, it would only upset my plans."

"I know--I know," said Mr. Nighthawk, nodding his head. "But I thought  that just to oblige a friend you wouldn't object to jumping from this  tree into that one." And he pointed to the nearest maple, the branches  of which all but touched the tree-top in which they were sitting. But  Kiddie Katydid's mind was made up.

"No jumping for me to-night!" he piped in a shrill voice.

All this time Mr. Nighthawk was growing hungrier than ever. And one  might well wonder why he didn't make one quick spring at Kiddie Katydid  and swallow him. But that was not Mr. Nighthawk's way of dining.

"Well," he said at last, "though you refuse to jump for me, won't you  kindly call some other member of your family and ask him to oblige me?"

"I don't know where my relations are just now," replied Kiddie Katydid.  "Some of them were here a while ago; but they went away." And that was  quite true! At that _peent_--that first warning cry--of Mr. Nighthawk's,  they had all vanished as if by magic, among the leaves.

"What about that Katy you're always talking about?" Mr. Nighthawk then  inquired. "Don't you suppose you could find _her_ and persuade _her_ to  do a little jumping for me--just to show me how it's done?"

"I'm sorry--" Kiddie said somewhat stiffly, "I'm sorry; but I must  absolutely refuse to do such a thing. Now that you've mentioned her,  I'll simply say _Katy did_. And beyond that I cannot discuss her with  you."

"She did what?" Mr. Nighthawk wanted to know--through his nose.

But Kiddie Katydid declined to answer that question. He merely hugged  his wings closer to his green body, and shot a sly glance at Mr.  Nighthawk, as if to say, "Ah! That's for _you_ to find out! But I shan't  tell you!"

Mr. Nighthawk looked rather foolish. He had always supposed that any one  who spent a good part of every night saying the same thing over and over  and over again must be quite dull-witted. But now he began to think that  perhaps Kiddie Katydid was brighter than the field people generally  believed him to be. And when Kiddie suddenly asked _him_ a question, he  was sure of his mistake.

"Did you know," said Kiddie, "that Solomon Owl often visits these farm  buildings?"

"Why, no! I wasn't aware of that," Mr. Nighthawk replied with a quick,  nervous look behind him. "What brings him here?"

"Chickens!" Kiddie Katydid explained. "Solomon Owl is very fond of  chickens. But they do say that he's not above eating a nighthawk when he  happens to stumble upon one."
