Adventures of an Indian Brave (Fables Ages 3 to 5)



	A long, long way off, right away in the west of America, there oncelived an old man who had one son.The country round was covered withforests, in which dwelt all kinds of wild beasts, and the young man andhis companions used to spend whole days in hunting them, and he was thefinest hunter of all the tribe.

	One morning, when winter was coming on, the youth and his companionsset off as usual to bring back some of the mountain goats and deer tobe salted down, as he was afraid of a snow-storm; and if the wind blewand the snow drifted the forest might be impassable for some weeks.The old man and the wife, however, would not go out, but remained inthe wigwam making bows and arrows.

	It soon grew so cold in the forest that at last one of the men declaredthey could walk no more, unless they could manage to warm themselves.

	'That is easily done,' said the leader, giving a kick to a large tree.Flames broke out in the trunk, and before it had burnt up they were ashot as if it had been summer.Then they started off to the place wherethe goats and deer were to be found in the greatest numbers, and soonhad killed as many as they wanted.But the leader killed most, as hewas the best shot.

	'Now we must cut up the game and divide it,' said he; and so they did,each one taking his own share; and, walking one behind the other, setout for the village.But when they reached a great river the young mandid not want the trouble of carrying his pack any further, and left iton the bank.

	'I am going home another way,' he told his companions.And takinganother road he reached the village long before they did.

	'Have you returned with empty hands?' asked the old man, as his sonopened the door.

	'Have I ever done that, that you put me such a question?' asked theyouth.'No; I have slain enough to feast us for many moons, but it washeavy, and I left the pack on the bank of the great river.Give me thearrows, I will finish making them, and you can go to the river andbring home the pack!'

	So the old man rose and went, and strapped the meat on his shoulder;but as he was crossing the ford the strap broke and the pack fell intothe river.He stooped to catch it, but it swirled past him.Heclutched again; but in doing so he over- balanced himself and washurried into some rapids, where he was knocked against some rocks, andhe sank and was drowned, and his body was carried down the stream intosmoother water when it rose to the surface again.But by this time ithad lost all likeness to a man, and was changed into a piece of wood.

	The wood floated on, and the river got bigger and bigger and entered anew country.There it was borne by the current close to the shore, anda woman who was down there washing her clothes caught it as it passed,and drew it out, saying to herself: 'What a nice smooth plank!I willuse it as a table to put my food upon.'And gathering up her clothesshe took the plank with her into her hut.

	When her supper time came she stretched the board across two stringswhich hung from the roof, and set upon it the pot containing a stewthat smelt very good.The woman had been working hard all day and wasvery hungry, so she took her biggest spoon and plunged it into the pot.But what was her astonishment and disgust when both pot and foodvanished instantly before her!

	'Oh, you horrid plank, you have brought me ill-luck!' she cried.Andtaking it up she flung it away from her.

	 The woman had been surprised before at the disappearance of her food,but she was more astonished still when, instead of the plank, shebeheld a baby.However, she was fond of children and had none of herown, so she made up her mind that she would keep it and take care ofit.The baby grew and throve as no baby in that country had ever done,and in four days he was a man, and as tall and strong as any brave ofthe tribe.

	'You have treated me well,' he said, 'and meat shall never fail to yourhouse.But now I must go, for I have much work to do.'

	Then he set out for his home.

	It took him many days to get there, and when he saw his son sitting inhis place his anger was kindled, and his heart was stirred to takevengeance upon him.So he went out quickly into the forest and shedtears, and each tear became a bird.'Stay there till I want you,' saidhe; and he returned to the hut.

	'I saw some pretty new birds, high up in a tree yonder,' he remarked.And the son answered: 'Show me the way and I will get them for dinner.'

	The two went out together, and after walking for about half an hourthey old man stopped.'That is the tree,' he said.And the son beganto climb it.

	Now a strange thing happened.The higher the young man climbed thehigher the birds seemed to be, and when he looked down the earth belowappeared no bigger than a star.Sill he tried to go back, but he couldnot, and though he could not see the birds any longer he felt as ifsomething were dragging him up and up.

	He thought that he had been climbing that tree for days, and perhaps hehad, for suddenly a beautiful country, yellow with fields of maize,stretched before him, and he gladly left the top of the tree andentered it.He walked through the maize without knowing where he wasgoing, when he heard a sound of knocking, and saw two old blind womencrushing their food between two stones.He crept up to them on tiptoe,and when one old woman passed her dinner to the other he held out hishand and took it and ate if for himself.

	'How slow you are kneading that cake,' cried the other old woman atlast.

	'Why, I have given you your dinner, and what more do you want?' repliedthe second.

	'You didn't; at least I never got it,' said the other.

	'I certainly thought you took it from me; but here is some more.'Andagain the young man stretched out his hand; and the two old women fellto quarrelling afresh.But when it happened for the third time the oldwomen suspected some trick, and one of them exclaimed:

	'I am sure there is a man here; tell me, are you not my grandson?'

	'Yes,' answered the young man, who wished to please her, 'and in returnfor your good dinner I will see if I cannot restore your sight; for Iwas taught in the art of healing by the best medicine man in thetribe.'And with that he left them, and wandered about till he foundthe herb which he wanted.Then he hastened back to the old women, andbegging them to boil him some water, he threw the herb in.As soon asthe pot began to sing he took off the lid, and sprinkled the eyes ofthe women, and sight came back to them once more.

	There was no night in that country, so, instead of going to bed veryearly, as he would have done in his own hut, the young man took anotherwalk.A splashing noise near by drew him down to a valley throughwhich ran a large river, and up a waterfall some salmon were leaping.How their silver sides glistened in the light, and how he longed tocatch some of the great fellows!But how could he do it?He hadbeheld no one except the old women, and it was not very likely thatthey would be able to help him.So with a sigh he turned away and wentback to them, but, as he walked, a thought struck him.He pulled outone of his hairs which hung nearly to his waist, and it instantlybecame a strong line, nearly a mile in length.

	'Weave me a net that I may catch some salmon,' said he.And they wovehim the net he asked for, and for many weeks he watched by the river,only going back to the old women when he wanted a fish cooked.

	At last, one day, when he was eating his dinner, the old woman whoalways spoke first, said to him:

	'We have been very glad to see you, grandson, but now it is time thatyou went home.'And pushing aside a rock, he saw a deep hole, so deepthat he could not see to the bottom.Then they dragged a basket out ofthe house, and tied a rope to it.'Get in, and wrap this blanket roundyour head,' said they; 'and, whatever happens, don't uncover it tillyou get to the bottom.'Then they bade him farewell, and he curledhimself up in the basket.

	Down, down, down he went; would he ever stop going?But when thebasket did stop, the young man forgot what he had been told, and puthis head out to see what was the matter.In an instant the basketmoved, but, to his horror, instead of going down, he felt himself beingdrawn upwards, and shortly after he beheld the faces of the old women.

	'You will never see your wife and son if you will not do as you arebid,' said they.'Now get in, and do not stir till you hear a crowcalling.'

	This time the young man was wiser, and though the basket often stopped,and strange creatures seemed to rest on him and to pluck at hisblanket, he held it tight till he heard the crow calling.Then heflung off the blanket and sprang out, while the basket vanished in thesky.

	He walked on quickly down the track that led to the hut, when, beforehim, he saw his wife with his little son on her back.

	'Oh! there is father at last,' cried the boy; but the mother bade himcease from idle talking.

	'But, mother, it is true; father is coming!' repeated the child.And,to satisfy him, the woman turned round and perceived her husband.

	Oh, how glad they all were to be together again!And when the windwhistled through the forest, and the snow stood in great banks roundthe door, the father used to take the little boy on his knee and tellhim how he caught salmon in the Land of the Sun.

	[From the Journal of the Anthropological Institute.]
