An old proverb with a new meaning (Fiction Ages 5 to 10)

It was half-past five when we boys got up the next morning. We were  joined on the stairs by Felicity, yawning and rosy.

"Oh, dear me, I overslept myself. Uncle Roger wanted breakfast at six.  Well, I suppose the fire is on anyhow, for the Story Girl is up. I guess  she got up early to knead the bread. She couldn't sleep all night for  worrying over it."

The fire was on, and a flushed and triumphant Story Girl was taking a  loaf of bread from the oven.

"Just look," she said proudly. "I have every bit of the bread baked. I  got up at three, and it was lovely and light, so I just gave it a right  good kneading and popped it into the oven. And it's all done and out of  the way. But the loaves don't seem quite as big as they should be," she  added doubtfully.

"Sara Stanley!" Felicity flew across the kitchen. "Do you mean that you  put the bread right into the oven after you kneaded it without leaving  it to rise a second time?"

The Story Girl turned quite pale.

"Yes, I did," she faltered. "Oh, Felicity, wasn't it right?"

"You've ruined the bread," said Felicity flatly. "It's as heavy as a  stone. I declare, Sara Stanley, I'd rather have a little common sense  than be a great story teller."

Bitter indeed was the poor Story Girl's mortification.

"Don't tell Uncle Roger," she implored humbly.

"Oh, I won't tell him," promised Felicity amiably. "It's lucky there's  enough old bread to do to-day. This will go to the hens. But it's an  awful waste of good flour."

The Story Girl crept out with Felix and me to the morning orchard, while  Dan and Peter went to do the barn work.

"It isn't ANY use for me to try to learn to cook," she said.

"Never mind," I said consolingly. "You can tell splendid stories."

"But what good would that do a hungry boy?" wailed the Story Girl.

"Boys ain't ALWAYS hungry," said Felix gravely. "There's times when they  ain't."

"I don't believe it," said the Story Girl drearily.

"Besides," added Felix in the tone of one who says while there is life  there is yet hope, "you may learn to cook yet if you keep on trying."

"But Aunt Olivia won't let me waste the stuff. My only hope was to learn  this week. But I suppose Felicity is so disgusted with me now that she  won't give me any more lessons."

"I don't care," said Felix. "I like you better than Felicity, even if  you can't cook. There's lots of folks can make bread. But there isn't  many who can tell a story like you."

"But it's better to be useful than just interesting," sighed the Story  Girl bitterly.

And Felicity, who was useful, would, in her secret soul, have given  anything to be interesting. Which is the way of human nature.

Company descended on us that afternoon. First came Aunt Janet's sister,  Mrs. Patterson, with a daughter of sixteen years and a son of two. They  were followed by a buggy-load of Markdale people; and finally, Mrs.  Elder Frewen and her sister from Vancouver, with two small daughters of  the latter, arrived.

"It never rains but it pours," said Uncle Roger, as he went out to take  their horse. But Felicity's foot was on her native heath. She had been  baking all the afternoon, and, with a pantry well stocked with biscuits,  cookies, cakes, and pies, she cared not if all Carlisle came to tea.  Cecily set the table, and the Story Girl waited on it and washed all the  dishes afterwards. But all the blushing honours fell to Felicity, who  received so many compliments that her airs were quite unbearable for  the rest of the week. She presided at the head of the table with as much  grace and dignity as if she had been five times twelve years old, and  seemed to know by instinct just who took sugar and who took it not. She  was flushed with excitement and pleasure, and was so pretty that I could  hardly eat for looking at her--which is the highest compliment in a  boy's power to pay.

The Story Girl, on the contrary, was under eclipse. She was pale and  lustreless from her disturbed night and early rising; and no opportunity  offered to tell a melting tale. Nobody took any notice of her. It was  Felicity's day.

After tea Mrs. Frewen and her sister wished to visit their father's  grave in the Carlisle churchyard. It appeared that everybody wanted to  go with them; but it was evident that somebody must stay home with Jimmy  Patterson, who had just fallen sound asleep on the kitchen sofa. Dan  finally volunteered to look after him. He had a new Henty book which he  wanted to finish, and that, he said, was better fun than a walk to the  graveyard.

"I think we'll be back before he wakes," said Mrs. Patterson, "and  anyhow he is very good and won't be any trouble. Don't let him go  outside, though. He has a cold now."

We went away, leaving Dan sitting on the door-sill reading his book, and  Jimmy P. snoozing blissfully on the sofa. When we returned--Felix and  the girls and I were ahead of the others--Dan was still sitting in  precisely the same place and attitude; but there was no Jimmy in sight.

"Dan, where's the baby?" cried Felicity.

Dan looked around. His jaw fell in blank amazement. I never saw any one  look as foolish as Dan at that moment.

"Good gracious, I don't know," he said helplessly.

"You've been so deep in that wretched book that he's got out, and dear  knows where he is," cried Felicity distractedly.

"I wasn't," cried Dan. "He MUST be in the house. I've been sitting right  across the door ever since you left, and he couldn't have got out unless  he crawled right over me. He must be in the house."

"He isn't in the kitchen," said Felicity rushing about wildly, "and he  couldn't get into the other part of the house, for I shut the hall door  tight, and no baby could open it--and it's shut tight yet. So are all  the windows. He MUST have gone out of that door, Dan King, and it's your  fault."

"He DIDN'T go out of this door," reiterated Dan stubbornly. "I know  that."

"Well, where is he, then? He isn't here. Did he melt into air?" demanded  Felicity. "Oh, come and look for him, all of you. Don't stand round like  ninnies. We MUST find him before his mother gets here. Dan King, you're  an idiot!"

Dan was too frightened to resent this, at the time. However and wherever  Jimmy had gone, he WAS gone, so much was certain. We tore about the  house and yard like maniacs; we looked into every likely and unlikely  place. But Jimmy we could not find, anymore than if he had indeed melted  into air. Mrs. Patterson came, and we had not found him. Things were  getting serious. Uncle Roger and Peter were summoned from the field.  Mrs. Patterson became hysterical, and was taken into the spare room with  such remedies as could be suggested. Everybody blamed poor Dan. Cecily  asked him what he would feel like if Jimmy was never, never found. The  Story Girl had a gruesome recollection of some baby at Markdale who had  wandered away like that--

"And they never found him till the next spring, and all they found  was--HIS SKELETON, with the grass growing through it," she whispered.

"This beats me," said Uncle Roger, when a fruitless hour had elapsed. "I  do hope that baby hasn't wandered down to the swamp. It seems impossible  he could walk so far; but I must go and see. Felicity, hand me my high  boots out from under the sofa, there's a girl."

Felicity, pale and tearful, dropped on her knees and lifted the cretonne  frill of the sofa. There, his head pillowed hardly on Uncle Roger's  boots, lay Jimmy Patterson, still sound asleep!

"Well, I'll be--jiggered!" said Uncle Roger.

"I KNEW he never went out of the door," cried Dan triumphantly.

When the last buggy had driven away, Felicity set a batch of bread, and  the rest of us sat around the back porch steps in the cat's light and  ate cherries, shooting the stones at each other. Cecily was in quest of  information.

"What does 'it never rains but it pours' mean?"

"Oh, it means if anything happens something else is sure to happen,"  said the Story Girl. "I'll illustrate. There's Mrs. Murphy. She never  had a proposal in her life till she was forty, and then she had three  in the one week, and she was so flustered she took the wrong one and has  been sorry ever since. Do you see what it means now?"

"Yes, I guess so," said Cecily somewhat doubtfully. Later on we heard  her imparting her newly acquired knowledge to Felicity in the pantry.

"'It never rains but it pours' means that nobody wants to marry you for  ever so long, and then lots of people do."
