AN ODD THOUGHT (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  "Umph! Umph!"

Farmer Green had fenced off a piece of the old orchard. And into this  new yard he turned Mrs. Pig's children.

"Umph! Umph!"

They had a fine time there, rooting down under the sod, rubbing their  backs against the trunks of the old apple trees, and sprawling in the  shade when they were sleepy.

"Umph! Umph!"

Sometimes an apple dropped from a tree. And then there was a mad  scramble.

"Umph! Umph!"

"Dear me!" said Jolly Robin's wife as she sat in the apple tree where  she and her husband had a nest every summer. "Don't Mrs. Pig's children  make a dreadful noise? I never knew half-grown pigs to have such loud  voices. Their grunts certainly are full-sized."

Jolly Robin, who had perched himself beside his wife, looked down at  their new neighbors.

"They're having a good time," he observed cheerfully. "We ought not to  complain. We may be thankful that they don't climb trees and try to  sing."

Jolly Robin had a way of looking on the bright side of things. It was  seldom that he couldn't act cheerful. Even when he felt quite  downhearted, _inside_, he managed usually to appear happy, _outside_.  And now his remark put his wife in a pleasanter frame of mind.

"Imagine a pig up a tree!" Mrs. Robin tittered.

"Umph! Umph! Are you talking about me?" a voice inquired right beneath  them. It gave Mrs. Robin such a start that she almost tumbled off the  limb.

"No! No! We're not talking about you--not exactly!" Jolly Robin  answered.

It was Grunty Pig that had spoken.

"Pardon me!" he said. "I thought I heard you mention the name, 'Pig'."

"Er--yes! We did speak of your family, in a general way," Jolly Robin  admitted.

"Ah!" said Grunty Pig. "And what was it you said about us? Weren't you  and your wife laughing about our climbing trees?"

Somehow Jolly Robin thought that Grunty's little eyes had a spiteful  gleam as he looked upward into the tree top. And Mrs. Robin couldn't  help moving to a higher limb. Grunty's glare sent a most uncomfortable  shiver over her.

Jolly Robin tried his best to act at his ease.

"It was just an odd thought that popped into my head," he assured Grunty  Pig. "It made Mrs. Robin giggle when I mentioned it." He laughed merrily  enough. And his wife managed to smile faintly. But Grunty Pig frowned.

"I thought so!" he cried. "You Robins were poking fun at me and my  brothers and sisters. Yes! And no doubt at my mother, too!"

"Oh, no!" Jolly Robin assured him. "We weren't thinking of any one in  particular."

"Aha!" Grunty snorted. "You were laughing at all of us, then." And Jolly  Robin could say nothing to change his opinion. "You can't fool me,"  Grunty declared. "You have insulted my whole family. And it's time that  you learned better manners. I see that I shall have to teach you a  lesson."

Well, when they heard that speech Jolly Robin and his wife had to laugh.  The idea of a lesson in manners from Grunty Pig was the funniest thing  on the farm.

[Illustration: "Always Mind Your Mother," Said Mrs. Pig.

(_Page 57_)]
