AN UNWELCOME GUEST (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  AS he neared his home in the cherry tree, Rusty Wren saw a fearsome  sight. Miss Kitty Cat was crouched right on top of the tin syrup can  which Johnnie Green had nailed to the tree. Inside that can was the Wren  family's nest. And inside the nest were some brand-new youngsters, only  two days out of their shells.

It was no wonder that when Rusty Wren came hack from the orchard and saw  such a sight he began to shriek.

"What are you doing on my roof?" he shrilled.

Miss Kitty Cat looked up calmly and watched him as he hopped about in  the top of the tree above her head.

[Illustration: Miss Kitty Cat Looked Calmly at Rusty Wren.]

"I've come to make another call on your wife," she explained.

Then a muffled voice chirped, "She's been here a long time and I can't  get her to go away."

The moment he heard that, Rusty Wren felt better. It was his wife's  voice and it meant that she was safe. To be sure, Rusty knew that she  was a prisoner in her own house; for it was plain that she dared not  leave it so long as Miss Kitty Cat stayed on the roof, ready to grab  Mrs. Wren the moment she stepped out of her doorway.

"Your wife is very shy," Miss Kitty remarked to Rusty Wren with a sly  smile. "I've been hoping to get more acquainted with her. That's why I  climbed up and sat on your roof. When people are shy and don't invite  me inside their houses I believe in making myself at home outside, while  I wait for them to appear."

From her doorway Mrs. Wren called to her husband, "Don't let her deceive  you with her pretty talk! Remember what I told you! She's  mealy-mouthed.... If you had seen her trying to reach her paw through  the door you'd know how dangerous she is."

"There!" said Miss Kitty Cat with a sigh. "People never seem to  understand my ways. I was only trying to shake hands!"

"With her claws!" cried the muffled voice of Rusty Wren's wife. "Ugh!  She's a wicked creature if ever there was one."

"Go away!" Rusty Wren scolded. "Get off my roof! Get out of my cherry  tree!"

By this time feathered neighbors of the Wren family were arriving from  all directions. They didn't hesitate to call Miss Kitty Cat names. And  some of them even darted quite near her, as if they meant to peck her  eyes out.

Miss Kitty began to have a worried look.

"Goodness! Where do they all live?" she asked herself. "I had no idea  there were so many birds around here. There's better hunting than I  supposed."

Try as they would, the birds couldn't budge Miss Kitty Cat from the top  of Rusty's house. He was frantic, poor fellow!

"I don't know what to do," he wailed. "My wife will starve in there--and  the children, too."

Just then little Mr. Chippy came hurrying up to him.

"Don't worry!" Mr. Chippy cried. "He's coming! He's on the way now; and  he can get you out of your trouble if anybody can."

Miss Kitty Cat pricked up her ears. She couldn't help hearing what Mr.  Chippy said.

"I shall stay right where I am," she declared. "Nobody can make me  move."

She had scarcely finished speaking when a most unexpected sound startled  her.

It was "_Meaow!_"
