ANTLERS (Fables:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Although Nimble had lost his horns he managed to go through the winter  without missing them as much as he had expected. And in time he had  almost forgotten the pair of spikes that he had worn on his head the  summer before. Then, one day, he made a great discovery. He found that  new horns were sprouting to take the place of those that he had lost!

"Now I can have some mock battles again--when my horns get long enough,"  he thought. And then he stopped short. What if the Spike Horns of the  year before had no more horns? If they were hornless they certainly  wouldn't care to take part in any mock battles.

Nimble's fears were soon set at rest. His old playmates soon let him  know that they were all going to have new horns too.

And then, a little later, Nimble made another great discovery. He was  looking into a pool one morning when he saw something that gave him huge  delight. His new horns were not like last year's horns. He beheld,  mirrored in the water, a handsome pair of Y-shaped antlers, each with  two points!

"Hurrah!" he cried. "I'll make those Spike Horns feel like hiding  themselves again."

He had expected to have a pleasant time showing his new antlers to his  old friends. When he met Dodger the Deer, Nimble called to him: "See  what I've got! Antlers! Two points!"

"Ho!" said Dodger. "So have I got antlers. And they have two points,  too."

Nimble had been so interested in his own horns that he hadn't looked at  Dodger's. And now when he gazed at them he saw that they were like his.

"What about the rest of the Spike Horns?" Nimble asked Dodger. "Have  they----"

"Yes, they have!" Dodger interrupted. "I tell you, 'two-pointers' are  common this season."

"So there aren't any more Spike Horns!" said Nimble somewhat sadly.

"Oh, yes! Plenty!" Dodger answered. "But they're an entirely new crop.  They were fawns last year."

When he heard that bit of news Nimble felt happier. And as soon as he  parted from Dodger the Deer he went and found some of the new Spike  Horns and showed them his wonderful two-point antlers.

But somehow they didn't seem at all impressed. They were too much taken  up with their own spikes to pay any attention to Nimble.

"Anyhow," he said to himself, "we 'two-pointers' can have some good mock  battles together."

And they did. They had mock battles that became famous all around Blue  Mountain. And of all the "two-pointers" that lived in that neighborhood,  Nimble and his friend Dodger the Deer were known as the best  sham-fighters. They could look fiercer and act angrier than any of their  young friends. And the way they tore into each other was almost enough  to frighten you, if you had seen them.

Old Mr. Crow said it was worth flying a mile to watch one of their  set-tos.
