AT THE CARROT PATCH (Fables:- Ages 0 to 3)

  During his first summer Nimble never reached Farmer Green's carrot patch  once. His mother had planned to take him there. But on account of an  unexpected party she had postponed their visit. And somehow the right  night for a trip after carrots never seemed to come again.

Now, Nimble had never forgotten what his mother had told him about  carrots. And he was going after some--so he promised himself--just as  soon as he was big enough.

When Nimble's second summer rolled around he was big enough and old  enough to prowl through the woods and fields much as he pleased. He was  a Spike Horn. And he felt fit to go to the carrot patch without waiting  for anybody to show him the way.

So one night he stole down the hillside pasture, across the meadow, and  jumped the fence into Farmer Green's garden.

He saw at once that somebody was there ahead of him. It was Jimmy  Rabbit. He was very busy with one of Farmer Green's cabbages.

"I've come down to try the carrots," said Nimble.

Jimmy Rabbit made no reply, except to nod his head slightly. He was  eating so fast that he really couldn't speak just then.

"Are these carrots?" Nimble inquired, as he looked about at the big  cabbages, which crossed the garden in long rows.

Jimmy Rabbit shook his head.

"They seem to be good," said Nimble, "whatever they are. I'll taste of  one."

And he did. In fact he tasted of three or four of them, eating their  centers out neatly.

Meanwhile Jimmy Rabbit was becoming uneasy. And at last he spoke.

"I thought," he said, "you told me you had come down here to try the  carrots."

"So I did," Nimble answered. "But I don't know where the carrots are."

"Why didn't you say so before?" Jimmy Rabbit asked him. And without  waiting for a reply he cried, "Follow me! I'll show you." And he hopped  off briskly, with Nimble after him.

Soon Jimmy Rabbit came to a halt.

"Here it is!" he said. "Here's the carrot patch. Help yourself!" And  then he hopped away again, back to his supper of cabbages.

[Illustration: Nimble Deer Followed Jimmy Rabbit.



















  _Page 57_]

Nimble Deer began to eat the carrot tops. And he was greatly  disappointed.

"They're not half as good as those great round balls," he muttered. And  he turned away from the carrots, to go back and join Jimmy Rabbit. But  he hadn't gone far when he met Jimmy bounding along in a great hurry.

"Old dog Spot!" Jimmy Rabbit gasped as he whisked past Nimble. "He's out  to-night and he's coming this way."

In one leap Nimble sprang completely around and followed Jimmy Rabbit  across the meadow, up through the pasture and over the stone wall into  the woods. There they lost each other.

The next morning Nimble met his mother along the ridge that ran down  toward Cedar Swamp.

"I went down to the carrot patch last night," he told her. "And I must  say I don't see why you're so fond of carrots. They're not half as good  as some big green balls that I found in the garden. I call the carrot  leaves tough. But the big green balls have very tender leaves."

His mother gave him a queer look.

"Do you mean to tell me," she asked him, "that you ate only the _leaves_  of the carrots?"

"Why, yes!" said Nimble. "I saw nothing else to eat. There was no fruit  on them."

"Ho!" cried his mother. "You have to dig with your toes to reach the  carrots themselves. They're down in the ground. And to my mind there's  nothing any juicier and sweeter and tenderer than nice young carrots,  eaten by the light of the moon."

Nimble felt very foolish. And then he tossed his head and said lightly,  "Oh, well! It wouldn't have made any difference if I _had_ dug the  carrots out of the dirt. They wouldn't have tasted right anyhow. For  there was no moon last night!"
