AUNT NANCY'S PLAN(Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  All was quiet once more, after the race from the ledge near Uncle Jerry  Chuck's home. The flock was feeding again. And if you hadn't noticed how  Aunt Nancy Ewe puffed from her fast running you wouldn't have supposed  there had just been a wild scramble over the stone wall and back.

Aunt Nancy was still feeling sorry for Uncle Jerry Chuck, whose rest had  been disturbed by the thud of hoofs above his head. "Remember!" she said  to Snowball sternly. "Don't go near Uncle Jerry's home again!"

"I won't!" he promised. "That is," he added, "I won't if I can help it.  If I find myself running that way I may not be able to stop myself."

Now, that sort of promise wasn't enough for Aunt Nancy.

"You must turn aside!" she told Snowball. "Just make believe that  there's a bear beyond the stone wall, instead of Uncle Jerry Chuck!  _Then_--" she said--"_then_ you'll turn quickly enough!"

"That's a good idea!" cried Snowball. "If only I don't forget it!"

Aunt Nancy's words never left his mind all the rest of the morning. Just  thinking about bears made Snowball frightfully uneasy. Whenever one of  the flock happened to stray up behind him Snowball jumped, fearing for a  moment that it was a bear.

If anybody said _baa_ in his ear he leaped to one side, expecting the  _baa_ to turn into a _woof!_

He began to wish that Aunt Nancy hadn't told him of her idea.

And all at once, when somebody came up behind him and gave him a nudge,  Snowball started to run.

"There's a bear behind me!" he thought.

Of course the rest of the flock thought he was only playing Follow My  Leader. So they followed him, every one of them.

Snowball went bounding across the pasture towards the stone wall, headed  straight for the spot where Uncle Jerry Chuck had his home. When he was  only a few jumps away from the wall he glanced back. He saw then that  there was no bear behind him. But he did notice Aunt Nancy Ewe, doing  her best to keep up with the rest. And then Snowball remembered what  she had said to him. If a bear--instead of Uncle Jerry Chuck--lived in  the hole at the foot of the ledge!

Well, that thought was enough to make Snowball swerve sharply to his  right. And a few moments later he bobbed over the wall a little further  up the hillside.

Just beyond the wall grew a tangle of berry bushes. And into the midst  of them Snowball jumped. And out of the midst of them, right in front of  him, there rose up on his hind legs--a bear!

Snowball gave a frightened, frantic blat. The next instant he was  scrambling back over the wall.

The foremost of the oncoming flock of sheep saw him. They couldn't think  what had happened. Anyhow, they couldn't stop. Close behind them pressed  the flock, all bunched together and hurrying blindly on.
