BAD NEWS (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

"Have you heard the news?" Tired Tim asked Brownie Beaver one day."There's going to be a cyclone."

"A cyclone?" Brownie exclaimed. "What's that? I never heard of one."

"It's a big storm, with a terrible wind," Tired Tim explained. "Thewind will blow so hard that it will snap off big trees."

"Good!" Brownie Beaver cried. "Then I won't have to cut down any moretrees in order to reach the tender bark that grows in their tops."

Tired Tim laughed. "You won't think it's very 'good,'" he said, "whenthe cyclone strikes the village."

"Why not?" Brownie inquired.

"Because--" said Tired Tim--"because the wind will blow every houseaway. It will snatch up the sticks of which the houses are built andcarry them over the top of Blue Mountain. Then I guess you'll wish youhad taken my advice and not built that new house of yours.

"_I_ shall be safe enough," the lazy rascal continued. "All I'llhave to do will be to crawl inside my house in the bank; for the windcan't very well blow the ground away."

Brownie Beaver thought that Tired Tim was just trying to scare him.

"I don't believe there's going to be any such thing!" he exclaimed.

"Don't you?" Tim grinned. "You just go and ask Grandaddy Beaver. He'sthe one that says there's going to be a cyclone."

At that Brownie Beaver stopped working and hurried off to find oldGrandaddy Beaver. And to his great dismay, Grandaddy said that whatTired Tim had told him was the truth.

"It's a-coming!" Grandaddy Beaver declared. "I saw one once before inthese parts, years before anybody else in this village was born. Andwhen I see a cyclone a-coming I can generally tell it a long way off."

"When is it going to get here?" Brownie asked in a quavering voice.

"Next Tuesday!" Grandaddy replied.

"What makes you think it's coming?"

"Well--everything looks just the way it did before the last cyclone,"Grandaddy Beaver explained, as he took a mouthful of willow bark. "Themoon looks just the same and the sun looks just the same. I had atwinge of rheumatics in my left shoulder yesterday; and to-day thepain's in my right. It was exactly that way before the last cyclone."

Brownie Beaver did not doubt that the old gentleman knew what he wastalking about. He remembered that Grandaddy Beaver had warned everyonethere was going to be a freshet. And though people had laughed at theold chap, the freshet had come.

Sadly worried, Brownie went and called on all his neighbors and askedthem what they were going to do. And to his surprise he found thatthey were laughing at Grandaddy once more. They seemed to haveforgotten about the freshet.

But Brownie Beaver could not forget that dreadful night. And now hetried to think of some way to keep his new house from being blown awayby the great wind, which Grandaddy Beaver said was coming on Tuesdaywithout fail.
