BEECHNUT SHUCKS (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  ONCE in a while Frisky Squirrel paid a visit to Farmer Green's place.  Although he had learned that the farmyard was not without its dangers,  after one adventure Frisky was always sure to return, sometime, as if in  search of another.

So a certain fine, fall day found him scampering along the top of the  stone wall that followed the road as it dropped down the hill from the  woods to Farmer Green's front gate.

Old Mr. Crow, sailing lazily over the yellowing fields, caught sight of  the stone wall traveller and glided into a tree beside the road. "You'd  better not go near the farmyard, young fellow!" old Mr. Crow called.

Frisky Squirrel stopped, sat down, and looked up at Mr. Crow in the tree  above him.

"Why not?" Frisky inquired.

"Haven't you heard the news?" Mr. Crow asked him. "Haven't you heard  that there's a cat at the farmhouse?"

"I didn't know it," Frisky admitted. "But I don't see why I should turn  back. I won't hurt her."

Old Mr. Crow _haw-hawed_.

"I don't believe," he croaked, "you've ever met a cat."

"No, I haven't," Frisky Squirrel replied, "but I'd like to see one. So  I'll be on my way. But don't worry, Mr. Crow? I won't hurt her." And  then Frisky started off along the top of the stone wall once more, at a  somewhat brisker pace to make up for lost time.

"He can't say I didn't warn him," Mr. Crow exclaimed as he watched the  bouncing bit of gray fur.

"I hope Mr. Crow won't worry," said Frisky Squirrel to himself. "If the  cat gets hurt it will be her own fault, for I certainly won't harm her."

When Frisky reached the farmyard he crept around a corner of the barn,  hoping to find a few kernels of corn. But Henrietta Hen had been there  before him and there wasn't one kernel left. He ran here and there about  the yard. And at last, when quite near the woodshed door, he sat up  suddenly, twitched his nose a few times, and said, "Ha! I smell  beechnuts!"

Now, that was not strange. Johnnie Green had been eating beechnuts in  the woodshed doorway. And he had scattered the shucks on the broad  stone step. Frisky Squirrel began nosing them. And just out of sight  inside the woodshed Miss Kitty Cat awoke from a short nap, stopped right  in the middle of a long stretch, and said, "Ha! I smell a squirrel!"

Miss Kitty Cat was wide awake in an instant. She flattened herself upon  the woodshed floor and crept silently to the door. Though she didn't  make the slightest sound, all at once Frisky Squirrel's nose twitched  again, as he muttered to himself, "There's a very queer smell about  these beechnut shucks!"

He was sitting on the edge of the stone doorstep with a bit of beechnut  clutched in his paws. And when he looked up and saw somebody's nose  appear in the doorway he tumbled right over backward. The only sound he  made came from the beechnut shuck, which made a faint click as it fell  upon the stone. And Miss Kitty Cat's sharp ears caught it.
