BEHIND THE SCENES (Fable:- 3 to 5)



 Some children are like little human scrawl-books, blotted all over with the sins and mistakes of their ancestors.

Monday morning came as mornings do come, bringing to the overworked bodyand mind a certain languor difficult to shake off. As I walked down thedirty little street, with its rows of old-clothes shops, saloons, andsecond-hand-furniture stores, I called several of my laggards, and gavethem a friendly warning. "Quarter of nine, Mrs. Finnigan!" "Bless mesoul, darlin'! Well, I will hurry up my childern, that I will; but thebaby was that bad with whoopin'-cough last night that I never got threewinks meself, darlin'!"

"All right; never mind the apron; let Jimmy walk on with me, and I willgive him one at school." Jimmy trots proudly at my side, munching a bitof baker's pie and carrying my basket. I drop into Mrs. Powers' suite ofapartments in Rosalie Alley, and find Lafayette Powers still in bed. Histwelve-year-old sister and guardian, Hildegarde, has over-slept, asusual, and breakfast is not in sight. Mrs. Powers goes to a dingy officeup town at eight o'clock, her present mission in life being the healingof the nations by means of mental science. It is her fourth vocation intwo years, the previous ones being tissue-paper flowers, lustrepainting, and the agency for a high-class stocking supporter. I scoldHildegarde roundly, and she scrambles sleepily about the room to find anote that Mrs. Powers has left for me. I rejoin my court in the street,and open the letter with anticipation.

Miss Kate.

Dear Maddam.--You complane of Lafayette's never getting to school tilleleven o'clock. It is not my affare as Hildegarde has _full charge_ ofhim and I _never_ intefear, but I would sujjest that if you _beleeve_ inhim he will do better. Your unbeleef sapps his _will powers_. you haveonly reprooved him for being late. why not incurrage him say by _paying_him 5 cents a morning for a wile to get amung his little maits on thestroak of nine? "declare for good and good will work for you" is one ofour sayings. I have not time to treet Lafayette myself my busness beingso engroassing but if you would take a few minites each night and _denyFear along the 5 avanues_ you could heel him. Say _there is no Time inthe infinnit_ over and over before you go to sleep. This will lift fearoff of Lafayette, fear of being late and he will get there in time.



 Yours for Good,

MRS. POWERS,

_Mental Heeler_.

Oh, what a naughty, ignorant, amusing, hypocritical, pathetic world itis! I tuck the note in my pocket to brighten the day for Helen, and wepass on.

As we progress we gather into our train Levi, Jacob, David, Moses,Elias, and the other prophets and patriarchs who belong to our band. Wehasten the steps of the infant Garibaldi, who is devouring refuse fruitfrom his mother's store, and stop finally to pluck a small DennisKearney from the coal-hod, where he has been put for safe-keeping. Theday has really begun, and with its first service the hands grow willingand the heart is filled with sunshine.

As the boys at my side prattle together of the "percession" and the"sojers" they saw yesterday, I wish longingly that I could betransported with my tiny hosts to the sunny, quiet country on thisclear, lovely morning.

[Illustration: "THE BOYS AT MY SIDE PRATTLE TOGETHER."]

I think of my own joyous childhood, spent in the sweet companionship offishes, brooks, and butterflies, birds, crickets, grasshoppers,whispering trees and fragrant wild flowers, and the thousand and oneplayfellows of Nature which the good God has placed within reach of thehappy country children. I think of the shining eyes of my little Lucysand Bridgets and Rachels could I turn them loose in a field of goldenbuttercups and daisies, with sweet wild strawberries hidden at theirroots; of the merry glee of my dear boisterous little prophets andpatriots, if I could set them catching tadpoles in a clear wayside pool,or hunting hens' nests in the alder bushes behind the barn, or pullingyellow cow lilies in the pond, or wading for cat-o'-nine-tails, withtheir ragged little trousers tucked above their knees. And oh! hardestof all to bear, I think of our poor little invalids, so young tostruggle with languor and pain! Just to imagine the joy of my poor, lameboys and my weary, pale, and peevish children, so different from thebright-eyed, apple-cheeked darlings of well-to-do parents,--mere babies,who, from morning till night, seldom or never know what it is to cuddledown warmly into the natural rest of a mother's loving bosom!



*

*

*

*

*

Monday morning came and went,--Monday afternoon also; it was now twoo'clock, and to my surprise and disappointment Patsy had not appeared.The new chair with its pretty red cushion stood expectant but empty.Helen had put a coat of shellac on poor Johnny Cass's table, freshenedup its squared top with new lines of red paint, and placed a littlesilver vase of flowers on it. Our Lady Bountiful had come in to pay forthe chair and see the boy, but alas! there was no boy to see. Thechildren were all ready for him. They knew that he was a sick boy, likeJohnny Cass, tired, and not able to run and jump, and that they must begood to him as they had been to Johnny. This was the idea of themajority; but I do not deny that there was a small minority whichprofessed no interest and promised no virtue. Our four walls contained aminiature world,--a world with its best foot forward, too, but it wasnot heaven.

At quarter past two I went into Helen's little room, where she wasdrawing exquisite illustrations on a blackboard for next day's "morningtalk."

"Helen, the children say that a family of Kennetts live at 32 AnnaStreet, and I am going to see why Patsy didn't come. Oh yes, I know thatthere are boys enough without running after them, but we must have thisparticular boy, whether he wants to come or not, for he is _suigeneris_. He shall sit on that cushion



"'And sew a fine seam,

And feast upon strawberries,



 Sugar and cream!'"

"I think a taste for martyrdom is just as difficult to eradicate fromthe system as a taste for blood," Helen remarked whimsically. "Verywell, run on and I'll 'receive' in your absence. I could say withAntony, 'Lend me your ears,' for I shall need them. Have you anycommands?"

"Just a few. Please tell Paulina Strozynski's big brother that he _must_call for her earlier, and not leave her sitting on the steps so long.Tell Mrs. Hickok that if she sends us another child whom she knows to bedown with the chicken-pox, we won't take in her two youngest whenthey're old enough. Don't give Mrs. Slamberg any aprons. She returnedthe little undershirts and drawers that I sent her by Julie, and said'if it was all the same to me, she'd rather have something that wouldmake a little more show!' And--oh yes, do see if you can find JacobShubener's hat; he is crying down in the yard, and doesn't dare go homewithout it."

"Very well. Four cases. Strozynski--steps--cruelty.Hickok--chicken-pox--ingratitude. Slamberg--aprons--vanity.Shubener--hat--carelessness. Oh that I could fasten Jacob's hat to hisear by a steel chain! Has he looked in the sink?"

"Yes."

"Ash-barrel?"

"Certainly."

"Up in the pepper-tree?"

"Of course."

"Then some one has 'chucked' it into the next yard, and the janitor willhave to climb the fence,--at his age! Oh, if I could eliminate theirregular verb 'to chuck' from the vocabulary of this school, I could'make out of the broken sounds of life a song, and out of life itself amelody,'" and she flew down-stairs like a breeze, to find the patientMr. Bowker. Mr. Bowker was a nice little man, who had not all his witsabout him, but whose heart was quite intact, and who swept with energyand washed windows with assiduity. He belonged to the Salvation Army,and the most striking articles of his attire, when sweeping, were aflame-colored flannel shirt and a shiny black hat with "Prepare to MeetThy God" on the front in large silver letters. The combination of colorwas indescribably pictorial, and as lurid and suggestive as anold-fashioned Orthodox sermon.

As I went through the lower hall, I found Mr. Bowker assisting Helen tosearch the coal-bin. "Don't smile," she cried. "Punch says, 'Sometimesthe least likeliest place is more likelier than the mostlikeliest,'--and sure enough, here is the hat! I should have been namedDeborah or Miriam,--not Helen!" and she hurried to dry the tears of theweeping Jacob.

[Illustration: "HERE IS THE HAT!"]
