BENJAMIN BAT'S PLAN (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Of course, Kiddie Katydid was not always to be found in his favorite  nook among the trees in Farmer Green's front yard. Quite often he went  skipping about from tree to tree or from bush to bush, sometimes flying  and sometimes leaping. It really made little difference to him which  mode of travel he used. And he never stopped to think how lucky he was  to be able to move so spryly with the help of either his legs or his  wings. He took his good fortune as a matter of course.

There was Mr. Frog! He was a famous jumper; but he couldn't fly. And  there was Mr. Nighthawk! He was a skillful flier; but he couldn't jump.

Such thoughts, however, never entered Kiddie Katydid's head. He went  cheerfully about his business--which was _eating_, principally--and  jumped or flew as the mood seized him. Indeed, if it hadn't been for  that queer fellow, Benjamin Bat, probably Kiddie never would have  realized just what he could--or couldn't--do.

Since Benjamin was another night-prowler like himself, Kiddie Katydid  saw him often. It seemed to Kiddie that he could scarcely ever gaze at  the full moon without catching sight of Benjamin Bat's dusky shape  flitting jerkily across the great, round, yellow disk.

When Benjamin was astir in the neighborhood, Kiddie Katydid lay low--or  high--in his favorite tree-top. At least, he kept very still until the  night was nearly gone, to give Benjamin Bat plenty of time to satisfy  his hunger. For Kiddie found Benjamin Bat a much more agreeable  companion when he had eaten his fill. Early in the evening, soon after  he had waked up, Benjamin was positively ferocious. But the more he ate,  the pleasanter he grew. And by the time faint streaks of light began to  show in the east he could smile and crack a joke as easily as anybody  else.

Well, late one night--or early one morning--Kiddie Katydid and Benjamin  Bat were enjoying a chat in the tree-tops, when Benjamin put a new idea  into Kiddie's head.

"We ought to have some sports right here in Farmer Green's yard," he  suggested. "You're such a fine jumper that you could try your skill  against Mr. Frog. And you're such a fine flier that you and Freddie  Firefly ought to have a race.... I'd suggest--" he added--"I'd suggest  that the sports take place after dark, almost any evening."

But Kiddie Katydid spoke up quickly and said that he wouldn't care to  join in the fun until the night was almost gone. He said he was sure he  could jump and fly better at that time. And that was quite true, because  he knew that if Mr. Bat swallowed him early in the evening he wouldn't  be able to take any part in the sports.

"Very well, then!" Benjamin Bat replied. "But it will be the worst  possible time for me."

"What do you mean?" Kiddie Katydid inquired. "Do you expect to enter any  of the contests?"

"Oh, yes!" said Benjamin. "I'm going to hang by my heels from the limb  of a tree. And since I'm never so heavy early in the evening, before  I've had a chance to eat much, I'd prefer to have the sports begin soon  after dark."

But Kiddie Katydid said that there was no doubt Benjamin Bat would win  in the sport of hanging head downward by his heels. And he told Benjamin  not to worry.
