BETTY'S BRAVERY (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 10)

"Celia, I've a notion that we ought to give Ben something.  A sort of  peace-offering, you know; for he feels dreadfully hurt about our  suspecting him," said Thorny, at dinner that day.

"I see he does, though he tries to seem as bright and pleasant as ever.  I do not wonder, and I've been thinking what I could do to soothe his  feelings. Can you suggest any thing?"

"Cuff-buttons.  I saw some jolly ones over at Berryville, oxidized  silver, with dogs' heads on them, yellow eyes, and all as natural as  could be. Those, now, would just suit him for his go-to-meeting white  shirts,--neat, appropriate, and in memoriam."

Miss Celia could not help laughing, it was such a boyish suggestion; but  she agreed to it, thinking Thorny knew best, and hoping the yellow-eyed  dogs would be as balm to Ben's wounds.

"Well, dear, you may give those, and Lita shall give the little whip  with a horse's foot for a handle, if it is not gone. I saw it at the  harness shop in town; and Ben admired it so much that I planned to give  it to him on his birthday."

"That will tickle him immensely; and if you'd just let him put brown  tops to my old boots, and stick a cockade in his hat when he sits up  behind the phaeton, he'd be a happy fellow," laughed Thorny, who had  discovered that one of Ben's ambitions was to be a tip-top groom.

"No, thank you; those things are out of place in America, and would be  absurd in a small country place like this. His blue suit and straw hat  please me better for a boy; though a nicer little groom, in livery or  out, no one could desire, and you may tell him I said so."

"I will, and he'll look as proud as punch; for he thinks every word you  say worth a dozen from any one else. But won't you give him something?  Just some little trifle, to show that we are both eating humble pie,  feeling sorry about the mouse money."

"I shall give him a set of school-books, and try to get him ready to  begin when vacation is over. An education is the best present we can  make him; and I want you to help me fit him to enter as well is he can.  Bab and Betty began, little dears,--lent him their books and taught  all they knew; so Ben got a taste, and, with the right encouragement,  would like to go on, I am sure."

"That's so like you Celia!  Always thinking of the best thing and doing  it handsomely. I'll help like a house a-fire, if he will let me; but,  all day, he's been as stiff as a poker, so I don't believe he forgives  me a bit."

"He will in time, and if you are kind and patient, he will be glad to  have you help him. I shall make it a sort of favor to me on his part, to  let you see to his lessons, now and then. It will be quite true, for I  don't want you to touch your Latin or algebra till cool weather;  teaching him will be play to you."

Miss Celia's last words made her brother unbend his brows, for he longed  to get at his books again, and the idea of being tutor to his  "man-servant" did not altogether suit him.

"I'll tool him along at a great pace, if he will only go. Geography and  arithmetic shall be my share, and you may have the writing and spelling;  it gives me the fidgets to set copies', and hear children make a mess of  words. Shall I get the books when I buy the other things? Can I go this  afternoon?"

"Yes, here is the list; Bab gave it to me.  You can go if you will come  home early and have your tooth filled."

Gloom fell at once upon Thorny's beaming face, and he gave such a shrill  whistle that his sister jumped in her chair, as she added, persuasively,--

"It won't hurt a bit, now, and the longer you leave it the worse it will  be. Dr. Mann is ready at any time; and, once over, you will be at peace  for months. Come, my hero, give your orders, and take one of the girls  to support you in the trying hour. Have Bab; she will enjoy it, and  amuse you with her chatter."

"As if I needed girls round for such a trifle as that!" returned Thorny  with a shrug, though he groaned inwardly at the prospect before him, as  most of us do on such occasions. "I wouldn't take Bab at any price;  she'd only get into some scrape, and upset the whole plan. Betty is the  chicken for me,--a real little lady, and as nice and purry as a  kitten."

"Very well; ask her mother, and take good care of her.  Let her tuck her  dolly in, and she will be contented anywhere. There's a fine air, and  the awning is on the phaeton, so you won't feel the sun. Start about  three, and drive carefully."

Betty was charmed to go, for Thorny was a sort of prince in her eyes;  and to be invited to such a grand expedition was an overwhelming honor.  Bab was not surprised, for, since Sancho's loss, she had felt herself in  disgrace, and been unusually meek; Ben let her "severely alone," which  much afflicted her, for he was her great admiration, and had been  pleased to express his approbation of her agility and courage so often,  that she was ready to attempt any fool-hardy feat to recover his regard.  But vainly did she risk her neck jumping off the highest beams in the  barn, trying to keep her balance standing on the donkey's back, and  leaping the lodge gate at a bound; Ben vouchsafed no reward by a look, a  smile, a word of commendation; and Bab felt that nothing but Sancho's  return would ever restore the broken friendship.

Into faithful Betty's bosom did she pour forth her remorseful  lamentations, often bursting out with the passionate exclamation, "If I  could only find Sanch, and give him back to Ben, I wouldn't care if I  tumbled down and broke all my legs right away!" Such abandonment of woe  made a deep impression on Betty; and she fell into the way of consoling  her sister by cheerful prophecies, and a firm belief that the organ-man  would yet appear with the lost darling.

"I've got five cents of my berry money, and I'll buy you an orange if I  see any," promised Betty stepping to kiss Bab, as the phaeton came to  the door, and Thorny handed in a young lady whose white frock was so  stiff with starch that it crackled like paper.

"Lemons will do if oranges are gone.  I like 'em to suck with lots of  sugar," answered Bab, feeling that the sour sadly predominated in her  cup just now.

"Don't she look sweet, the dear!" murmured Mrs. Moss, proudly surveying  her youngest.

She certainly did, sitting under the fringed canopy with "Belinda," all  in her best, upon her lap, as she turned to smile and nod, with a face  so bright and winsome under the little blue hat, that it was no wonder  mother and sister thought there never was such a perfect child as "our  Betty."

Dr. Mann was busy when they arrived, but would be ready in an hour; so  they did their shopping at once, having made sure of the whip as they  came along. Thorny added some candy to Bab's lemon, and Belinda had a  cake, which her mamma obligingly ate for her. Betty thought that  Aladdin's palace could not have been more splendid than the jeweller's  shop where the canine cuff-buttons were bought; but when they came to  the book-store, she forgot gold, silver, and precious stones, to revel  in picture-books, while Thorny selected Ben's modest school outfit.  Seeing her delight, and feeling particularly lavish with plenty of money  in his pocket, the young gentleman completed the child's bliss by  telling her to choose whichever one she liked best out of the pile of  Walter Crane's toy-books lying in bewildering colors before her.

"This one; Bab always wanted to see the dreadful cupboard, and there's a  picture of it here," answered Betty, clasping a gorgeous copy of  "Bluebeard" to the little bosom, which still heaved with the rapture of  looking at that delicious mixture of lovely Fatimas in pale azure gowns,  pink Sister Annes on the turret top, crimson tyrants, and yellow  brothers with forests of plumage blowing wildly from their  mushroom-shaped caps.

"Very good; there you are, then.  Now, come on, for the fun is over and  the grind begins," said Thorny, marching away to his doom, with his  tongue in his tooth, and trepidation in his manly breast.

"Shall I shut my eyes and hold your head?" quavered devoted Betty, as  they went up the stairs so many reluctant feet had mounted before them.

"Nonsense, child, never mind me!  You look out of window and amuse  yourself; we shall not be long, I guess;" and in went Thorn silently  hoping that the dentist had been suddenly called away, or some person  with an excruciating toothache would be waiting to take ether, and so  give our young man an excuse for postponing his job.

But no; Dr. Mann was quite at leisure, and, full of smiling interest,  awaited his victim, laying forth his unpleasant little tools with the  exasperating alacrity of his kind. Glad to be released from any share in  the operation, Betty retired to the back window to be as far away as  possible, and for half in hour was so absorbed in her book that poor  Thorny might have groaned dismally without disturbing her.

"Done now, directly, only a trifle of  polishing off and a look round,"  said Dr. Mann, at last; and Thorny, with a yawn that nearly rent him  asunder, called out,--

"Thank goodness! Pack up, Bettykin."

"I'm all ready!" and, shutting her book with a start, she slipped down  from the easy chair in a great hurry.

But "looking round" took time; and, before the circuit of Thorny's mouth  was satisfactorily made, Betty had become absorbed by a more interesting  tale than even the immortal "Bluebeard." A noise of children's voices in  the narrow alley-way behind the house attracted her attention; the long  window opened directly on the yard, and the gate swung in the wind.  Curious as Fatima, Betty went to look; but all she saw was a group of  excited boys peeping between the bars of another gate further down.

"What's the matter?" she asked of two small girls, who stood close by  her, longing but not daring to approach the scene of action.

"Boys chasing a great black cat, I believe," answered one child.

"Want to come and see?" added the other, politely extending the  invitation to the stranger.

The thought of a cat in trouble would have nerved Betty to face a dozen  boys; so she followed at once, meeting several lads hurrying away on  some important errand, to judge from their anxious countenances.

"Hold tight, Jimmy, and let 'em peek, if they want to. He can't hurt  anybody now," said one of the dusty huntsmen, who sat on the wide coping  of the wall, while two others held the gate, as if a cat could only  escape that way.

"You peek first, Susy, and see if it looks nice," said one little girl,  boosting her friend so that she could look through the bars in the upper  part of the gate.

"No; it 's only an ugly old dog!" responded Susy, losing all interest at  once, and descending with a bounce.

"He's mad! and Jud's gone to get his gun, so we can shoot him!" called  out one mischievous boy, resenting the contempt expressed for their  capture.

"Ain't, neither!" howled another lad from his perch.  "Mad dogs won't  drink; and this one is lapping out of a tub of water."

"Well, he may be, and we don't know him, and he hasn't got any muzzle  on, and the police will kill him if Jud don't," answered the sanguinary  youth who had first started the chase after the poor animal, which had  come limping into town, so evidently a lost dog that no one felt any  hesitation in stoning him.

"We must go right home; my mother is dreadful 'fraid of mad dogs, and so  is yours," said Susy; and, having satisfied their curiosity, the young  ladies prudently retired.

But Betty had not had her "peep," and could not resist one look; for she  had heard of these unhappy animals, and thought Bab would like to know  how they looked. So she stood on tip-toe and got a good view of a dusty,  brownish dog, lying on the grass close by, with his tongue hanging out  while he panted, as if exhausted by fatigue and fear, for he still cast  apprehensive glances at the wall which divided him from his tormentors.

"His eyes are just like Sanch's," said Betty to herself, unconscious that  she spoke aloud, till she saw the creature prick up his cars and half  rise, as if he had been called.

"He looks as if he knew me, but it isn't our Sancho; he was a lovely  dog." Betty said that to the little boy peeping in beside her; but  before he could make any reply, the brown beast stood straight up with  an inquiring bark, while his eyes shone like topaz, and the short tail  wagged excitedly.

"Why, that's just the way Sanch used to do!" cried Betty, bewildered by  the familiar ways of this unfamiliar-looking dog.

As if the repetition of his name settled his own doubts, he leaped  toward the gate and thrust a pink nose between the bars, with a howl of  recognition as Betty's face was more clearly seen. The boys tumbled  precipitately from their perches, and the little girl fell back alarmed,  yet could not bear to run away and leave those imploring eyes pleading  to her through the bars so eloquently.

"He acts just like our dog, but I don't see how it can be him.  Sancho,  Sancho, is it really you?" called Betty, at her wits' end what to do.

"Bow, wow, wow!" answered the well-known bark, and the little tail did  all it could to emphasize the sound, while the eyes were so full of dumb  love and joy, the child could not refuse to believe that this ugly stray  was their own Sancho strangely transformed.

All of a sudden, the thought rushed into her mind, how glad Ben would  be!--and Bab would feel all happy again. "I must carry him home."

Never stopping to think of danger, and forgetting all her doubts, Betty  caught the gate handle out of Jimmy's grasp, exclaiming eagerly: "He is  our dog! Let me go in; I ain't afraid."

"Not till Jud comes back; he told us we mustn't," answered the  astonished Jimmy, thinking the little girl as mad as the dog.

With a confused idea that the unknown Jud had gone for a gun to shoot  Sanch, Betty gave a desperate pull at the latch and ran into the yard,  bent on saving her friend. That it was a friend there could be no  further question; for, though the creature rushed at her as if about to  devour her at a mouthful, it was only to roll ecstatically at her feet,  lick her hands, and gaze into her face, trying to pant out the welcome  which he could not utter. An older and more prudent person would have  waited to make sure before venturing in; but confiding Betty knew little  of the danger which she might have run; her heart spoke more quickly  than her head, and, not stopping to have the truth proved, she took the  brown dog on trust, and found it was indeed dear Sanch.

Sitting on the grass, she hugged him close, careless of tumbled hat,  dusty paws on her clean frock, or a row of strange boys staring from the  wall.

"Darling doggy, where have you been so long?" she cried, the great thing  sprawling across her lap, as if he could not get near enough to his  brave little protector. "Did they make you black and beat you, dear? Oh,  Sanch, where is your tail--your pretty tail?"

A plaintive growl and a pathetic wag was all the answer he could make to  these tender inquiries; for never would the story of his wrongs be  known, and never could the glory of his doggish beauty be restored.  Betty was trying to comfort him with pats and praises, when a new face  appeared at the gate, and Thorny's authoritative voice called out,--

"Betty Moss, what on earth are you doing in  there with that dirty  beast?"

"It's Sanch, it's Sanch! Oh, come and see!" shrieked Betty, flying up to  lead forth her prize. But the gate was held fast, for some one said the  words, "Mad dog," and Thorny was very naturally alarmed, because he had  already seen one. "Don't stay there another minute. Get up on that bench  and I'll pull you over," directed Thorny, mounting the wall to rescue  his charge in hot haste; for the dog did certainly behave queerly,  limping hurriedly to and fro, as if anxious to escape. No wonder, when  Sancho heard a voice he knew, and recognized another face, yet did not  meet as kind a welcome as before.

"No, I'm not coming out till he does.  It is Sanch, and I'm going to  take him home to Ben," answered Betty, decidedly, as she wet her  handkerchief in the rain water to bind up the swollen paw that had  travelled many miles to rest in her little hand again.

"You're crazy, child.  That is no more Ben's dog than I am."

"See if it isn't!" cried Betty, perfectly unshaken in her faith; and,  recalling the words of command as well as she could, she tried to put  Sancho through his little performance, as the surest proof that she was  right. The poor fellow did his best, weary and foot-sore though he was;  but when it came to taking his tail in his mouth to waltz, he gave it  up, and, dropping down, hid his face in his paws, as he always did when  any of his tricks failed. The act was almost pathetic now, for one of  the paws was bandaged, and his whole attitude expressed the humiliation  of a broken spirit.

That touched Thorny, and, quite convinced both of the dog's sanity and  identity, he sprung down from the wall with Ben's own whistle, which  gladdened Sancho's longing ear as much as the boy's rough caresses  comforted his homesick heart.

"Now, let's carry him right home, and surprise Ben.  Won't he be  pleased?" said Betty, so in earnest that she tried to lift the big brute  in spite of his protesting yelps.

"You are a little trump to find him out in spite of all the horrid  things that have been done to him. We must have a rope to lead him, for  he's got no collar and no muzzle. He has got friends though, and I'd  like to see any one touch him now. Out of the way, there, boy!" Looking  as commanding as a drum-major, Thorny cleared a passage, and with one  arm about his neck, Betty proudly led her treasure magnanimously  ignoring his late foes, and keeping his eye fixed on the faithful friend  whose tender little heart had known him in spite of all disguises.

"I found him, sir," and the lad who had been most eager for the  shooting, stepped forward to claim any reward that might be offered for  the now valuable victim.

"I kept him safe till she came," added the jailer Jimmy, speaking for  himself.

"I said he wasn't mad," cried a third, feeling that his discrimination  deserved approval.

"Jud ain't my brother," said the fourth, eager to clear his skirts from  all offence.

"But all of you chased and stoned him, I suppose? You'd better look out  or you'll get reported to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to  Animals."

With this awful and mysterious threat, Thorny slammed the doctor's gate  in the faces of the mercenary youths, nipping their hopes in the bud,  and teaching them a good lesson.

After one astonished stare, Lita accepted Sancho without demur, and they  greeted one another cordially, nose to nose, instead of shaking hands.  Then the dog nestled into his old place under the linen duster with a  grunt of intense content, and soon fell fast asleep, quite worn out with  fatigue. No Roman conqueror bearing untold treasures with him, ever  approached the Eternal City feeling richer or prouder than did Miss  Betty as she rolled rapidly toward the little brown house with the  captive won by her own arms. Poor Belinda was forgotten in a corner,  "Bluebeard" was thrust under the cushion, and the lovely lemon was  squeezed before its time by being sat upon; for all the child could  think of was Ben's delight, Bab's remorseful burden lifted off, "Ma's"  surprise, and Miss Celia's pleasure. She could hardly realize the happy  fact, and kept peeping under the cover to be sure that the dear dingy  bunch at her feet was truly there.

"I'll tell you how we'll do it," said Thorny, breaking a long silence as  Betty composed herself with an irrepressible wriggle of delight after  one of these refreshing peeps. "We'll keep Sanch hidden, and smuggle him  into Ben's old room at your house. Then I'll drive on to the barn, and  not say a word, but send Ben to get something out of that room. You just  let him in, to see what he'll do. I'll bet you a dollar he won't know  his own dog."

"I don't believe I can keep from screaming right out when I see him, but  I'll try. Oh, won't it be fun!"--and Betty clapped her hands in joyful  anticipation of that exciting moment.

A nice little plan, but Master Thorny forgot the keen senses of the  amiable animal snoring peacefully among his boots; and, when they  stopped at the Lodge, he had barely time to say in a whisper,

"Ben's coming; cover Sanch and let me get him in quick!" before the dog  was out of the phaeton like a bombshell, and the approaching boy went  down as if shot, for Sancho gave one leap, and the two rolled over and  over, with a shout and a bark of rapturous recognition.

"Who is hurt?" asked Mrs. Moss, running out with floury hands uplifted  in alarm.

"Is it a bear?" cried Bab, rushing after her, beater in hand, for a  dancing bear was the delight of her heart.

"Sancho's found! Sancho's found!"  shouted Thorny, throwing up his hat  like a lunatic.

"Found, found, found!" echoed Betty, dancing wildly about as if she too  had lost her little wits.

"Where? how? when? who did it?" asked Mrs. Moss, clapping her dusty  hands delightedly.

"It isn't; it's an old dirty brown thing," stammered Bab, as the dog  came uppermost for a minute, and then rooted into Ben's jacket as if he  smelt a woodchuck, and was bound to have him out directly.

Then Thorny, with many interruptions from Betty, poured forth the  wondrous tale, to which Bab and his mother listened breathlessly, while  the muffins burned as black as a coal, and nobody cared a bit.

"My precious lamb, how did you dare to do such a thing?" exclaimed Mrs.  Moss, hugging the small heroine with mingled admiration and alarm.

"I'd have dared, and slapped those horrid boys, too. I wish I'd gone!"  and Bab felt that she had for ever lost the chance of distinguishing  herself.

"Who cut his tail off?" demanded Ben, in a menacing tone, as he came  uppermost in his turn, dusty, red and breathless, but radiant.

"The wretch who stole him,  I suppose; and he deserves to be hung,"  answered Thorny, hotly.

"If ever I catch him, I'll--I'll cut his nose off," roared Ben, with  such a vengeful glare that Sanch barked fiercely; and it was well that  the unknown "wretch" was not there, for it would have gone hardly with  him, since even gentle Betty frowned, while Bab brandished the  egg-beater menacingly, and their mother indignantly declared that "it  was too bad!"

Relieved by this general outburst, they composed their outraged  feelings; and while the returned wanderer went from one to another to  receive a tender welcome from each, the story of his recovery was more  calmly told. Ben listened with his eye devouring the injured dog; and  when Thorny paused, he turned to the little heroine, saying solemnly, as  he laid her hand with his own on Sancho's head,

"Betty Moss, I'll never forget what you did; from this minute half of  Sanch is your truly own, and if I die you shall have the whole of him,"  and Ben sealed the precious gift with a sounding kiss on either chubby  check.

Betty was so deeply touched by this noble bequest, that the blue eyes  filled and would have overflowed if Sanch had not politely offered his  tongue like a red pocket-handkerchlef, and so made her laugh the drops  away, while Bab set the rest off by saying gloomily,--

"I mean to play with all the mad dogs I can find; then folks will think  I'm smart and give me nice things."

"Poor old Bab, I'll forgive you now, and lend you my half whenever you  want it," said Ben, feeling at peace now with all mankind, including,  girls who tagged.

"Come and show him to Celia," begged Thorny, eager to fight his battles  over again.

"Better wash him up first; he's a sight to see, poor thing," suggested  Mrs. Moss, as she ran in, suddenly remembering her muffins.

"It will take a lot of washings to get that brown stuff off.  See, his  pretty, pink skin is all stained with it. We'll bleach him out, and his  curls will grow, and he'll be as good as ever--all but--"

Ben could not finish, and a general wail went up for the departed tassel  that would never wave proudly in the breeze again.

"I'll buy him a new one.  Now form the procession and let us go in  style," said Thorny, cheerily, as he swung Betty to his shoulder and  marched away whistling "Hail! the conquering hero comes," while Ben and  his Bow-wow followed arm-in-arm, and Bab brought up the rear, banging on  a milk-pan with the egg-beater.
