BIRDS' EGGS (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

Though Benny Badger never cared much for foxes, he was willing, usually,to stop and talk with one of that family--provided he wasn't too busydigging to take the time for gossip.

There was one fox who often strolled about the neighborhood. And thoughBenny had many a chat with this gentleman, somehow Benny never learnedmuch from him.

He was so sly that he let Benny do most of the talking, while helistened. And when he did say anything, he preferred to ask questions.

In time Benny Badger noticed that his chats with Mr. Fox were veryone-sided. And he made up his mind at last that when he next met thatcrafty fellow he would ask him plenty of questions. He would make himtalk, or he would know the reason why.

It happened that early on the following morning, when he was hunting forGround Squirrel's holes, he found himself face to face with Mr. Fox. AndBenny noticed that Mr. Fox was himself looking with great interest at afresh Ground Squirrel's hole. "Hullo!" Benny Badger exclaimed. "I hopeyou haven't come here after Ground Squirrels."

Mr. Fox looked much surprised.

"No, indeed!" he said. "I'm only hunting for birds' eggs."

"Birds' eggs!" Benny Badger repeated. "Have you found any?"

Mr. Fox squirmed a bit. He did not like to answer questions.

"Have you found any eggs?" Benny asked him again.

"A few!" Mr. Fox replied.

"Where?" Benny inquired.

"Oh, in different places," said Mr. Fox. And he began to talk about theweather--how dry it was, and how much the country needed rain.

But Benny Badger was not to be fooled so easily.

"You haven't really answered my question," Benny reminded Mr. Foxbluntly. "I asked you where you've been finding birds' eggs. And I'llthank you to tell me, sir."

Mr. Fox gave a slight start. Benny's tone was none too pleasant. And Mr.Fox certainly didn't want to quarrel with him.

"If you wish to know anything about birds' eggs, why don't you ask aPrairie Chicken?" he inquired. "She would know a great deal more abouteggs than I do."

To Benny, that suggestion seemed quite worth while. There was no doubtthat what Mr. Fox said was true. And Benny wondered why he hadn'tthought of the plan himself.

"Your advice," he told Mr. Fox, "is so good that I'm going to startright now to look for a Prairie Chicken. It's almost dawn now. And theChickens will soon be getting up."

So Benny said good-by. And Mr. Fox tried to say good-by, too; butsomehow he choked over the words, and began to cough so violently thatBenny Badger was quite alarmed.

He waited anxiously until he saw that Mr. Fox was out of danger. Andthen he left him.

If he had looked back he might have seen his sly friend capering aboutin the gray light as if something amused him hugely. And no doubt Bennywould have wondered what it could have been.

"Prairie Chickens!" Mr. Fox was chuckling. "Much they'll tell _him_about eggs!"
