BLOCKHEAD-HANS (Fables:- Ages 0 to 5)

Far away in the country lay an old manor-house where lived an old squire  who had two sons. They thought themselves so clever, that if they had  known only half of what they did know, it would have been quite enough.  They both wanted to marry the King's daughter, for she had proclaimed  that she would have for her husband the man who knew best how to choose  his words.

Both prepared for the wooing a whole week, which was the longest time  allowed them; but, after all, it was quite long enough, for they both  had preparatory knowledge, and everyone knows how useful that is. One  knew the whole Latin dictionary and also three years' issue of the daily  paper of the town off by heart, so that he could repeat it all backwards  or forwards as you pleased. The other had worked at the laws of  corporation, and knew by heart what every member of the corporation  ought to know, so that he thought he could quite well speak on State  matters and give his opinion. He understood, besides this, how to  embroider braces with roses and other flowers, and scrolls, for he was  very ready with his fingers.

'I shall win the king's daughter!' they both cried.

Their old father gave each of them a fine horse; the one who knew the  dictionary and the daily paper by heart had a black horse, while the  other who was so clever at corporation law had a milk-white one. Then  they oiled the corners of their mouths so that they might be able to  speak more fluently. All the servants stood in the courtyard and saw  them mount their steeds, and here by chance came the third brother; for  the squire had three sons, but nobody counted him with his brothers,  for he was not so learned as they were, and he was generally called  'Blockhead-Hans.'

'Oh, oh!' said Blockhead-Hans. 'Where are you off to? You are in your  Sunday-best clothes!'

'We are going to Court, to woo the Princess! Don't you know what is  known throughout all the country side?' And they told him all about it.

'Hurrah! I'll go to!' cried Blockhead-Hans; and the brothers laughed at  him and rode off.

'Dear father!' cried Blockhead-Hans, 'I must have a horse too. What a  desire for marriage has seized me! If she will have me, she WILL have  me, and if she won't have me, I will have her.'

'Stop that nonsense!' said the old man. 'I will not give you a horse.  YOU can't speak; YOU don't know how to choose your words. Your brothers!  Ah! they are very different lads!'

'Well,' said Blockhead-Hans, 'if I can't have a horse, I will take the  goat which is mine; he can carry me!'

And he did so. He sat astride on the goat, struck his heels into its  side, and went rattling down the high-road like a hurricane.

'Hoppetty hop! what a ride!' Here I come!' shouted Blockhead-Hans,  singing so that the echoes were roused far and near. But his brothers  were riding slowly in front. They were not speaking, but they were  thinking over all the good things they were going to say, for everything  had to be thought out.

'Hullo!' bawled Blockhead-Hans, 'here I am! Just look what I found on  the road!'--and he showed them a dead crow which he had picked up.

'Blockhead!' said his brothers, 'what are you going to do with it?'

'With the crow? I shall give it to the Princess!'

'Do so, certainly!' they said, laughing loudly and riding on.

'Slap! bang! here I am again! Look what I have just found! You don't  find such things every day on the road!' And the brothers turned round  to see what in the world he could have found.

'Blockhead!' said they, 'that is an old wooden shoe without the top! Are  you going to send that, too, to the Princess?'

'Of course I shall!' returned Blockhead-Hans; and the brothers laughed  and rode on a good way.

'Slap! bang! here I am!' cried Blockhead-Hans; 'better and better--it is  really famous!'

'What have you found now?' asked the brothers.

'Oh,' said Blockhead-Hans, 'it is really too good! How pleased the  Princess will be!'

'Why!' said the brothers, 'this is pure mud, straight from the ditch.'

'Of course it is!' said Blockhead-Hans, 'and it is the best kind! Look  how it runs through one's fingers!' and, so saying, he filled his pocket  with the mud.

But the brothers rode on so fast that dust and sparks flew all around,  and they reached the gate of the town a good hour before Blockhead-Hans.  Here came the suitors numbered according to their arrival, and they were  ranged in rows, six in each row, and they were so tightly packed  that they could not move their arms. This was a very good thing, for  otherwise they would have torn each other in pieces, merely because the  one was in front of the other.

All the country people were standing round the King's throne, and were  crowded together in thick masses almost out of the windows to see the  Princess receive the suitors; and as each one came into the room all his  fine phrases went out like a candle!

'It doesn't matter!' said the Princess. 'Away! out with him!'

At last she came to the row in which the brother who knew the dictionary  by heart was, but he did not know it any longer; he had quite forgotten  it in the rank and file. And the floor creaked, and the ceiling was all  made of glass mirrors, so that he saw himself standing on his head, and  by each window were standing three reporters and an editor; and each  of them was writing down what was said, to publish it in the paper that  came out and was sold at the street corners for a penny. It was fearful,  and they had made up the fire so hot that it was grilling.

'It is hot in here, isn't it!' said the suitor.

'Of course it is! My father is roasting young chickens to-day!' said the  Princess.

'Ahem!' There he stood like an idiot. He was not prepared for such a  speech; he did not know what to say, although he wanted to say something  witty. 'Ahem!'

'It doesn't matter!' said the Princess. 'Take him out!' and out he had  to go.

Now the other brother entered.

'How hot it is!' he said.

'Of course! We are roasting young chickens to-day!' remarked the  Princess.

'How do you--um!' he said, and the reporters wrote down. 'How do  you--um.'

'It doesn't matter!' said the Princess. 'Take him out!'

Now Blockhead-Hans came in; he rode his goat right into the hall.

'I say! How roasting hot it is here!' said he.

'Of course! I am roasting young chickens to-day!' said the Princess.

'That's good!' replied Blockhead-Hans; 'then can I roast a crow with  them?'

'With the greatest of pleasure!' said the Princess; 'but have you  anything you can roast them in? for I have neither pot nor saucepan.'

'Oh, rather!' said Blockhead-Hans. 'Here is a cooking implement with tin  rings,' and he drew out the old wooden shoe, and laid the crow in it.

'That is quite a meal!' said the Princess; 'but where shall we get the  soup from?'

'I've got that in my pocket!' said Blockhead-Hans. 'I have so much that  I can quite well throw some away!' and he poured some mud out of his  pocket.

'I like you!' said the Princess. 'You can answer, and you can speak, and  I will marry you; but do you know that every word which we are saying  and have said has been taken down and will be in the paper to-morrow?  By each window do you see there are standing three reporters and an  old editor, and this old editor is the worst, for he doesn't understand  anything!' but she only said this to tease Blockhead-Hans. And the  reporters giggled, and each dropped a blot of ink on the floor.

'Ah! are those the great people?' said Blockhead-Hans. 'Then I will give  the editor the best!' So saying, he turned his pockets inside out, and  threw the mud right in his face.

'That was neatly done!' said the Princess. 'I couldn't have done it; but  I will soon learn how to!'

Blockhead-Hans became King, got a wife and a crown, and sat on the  throne; and this we have still damp from the newspaper of the editor and  the reporters--and they are not to be believed for a moment.
