BLUSTER (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Soon after Henrietta Hen shrieked for the rooster he came hurrying  around a corner of the barn. When he saw Turkey Proudfoot towering above  Henrietta and her new brood of chicks in the middle of the farmyard he  stopped short. To tell the truth, the rooster was afraid of Turkey  Proudfoot and usually took pains to keep out of his way.

"Go back!" Turkey Proudfoot called to him. "You're not needed here.  There's been a little difficulty; but I can settle it myself."

"Oh, very well!" the rooster replied. "I'm glad there's no great  trouble. When I heard Henrietta calling me I thought she was in danger."  He turned, then, to slink away behind the barn.

"Don't desert me!" Henrietta Hen besought him. "Help! Help!"

Turkey Proudfoot waved a wing at the rooster.

"Don't pay any attention to her!" he said. "She's excited. I'll have her  calmed down in no time."

"Of course I'm excited!" Henrietta Hen cried. "Don't let him deceive  you, Mr. Rooster! He's been threatening me!"

Turkey Proudfoot bade her, in an undertone, to be quiet.

"Go along about your business," he told the rooster. "She's mistaken. I  haven't said I'd harm her."

"No! But he's talking about eating one of my chicks! And that's worse,"  Henrietta screamed. "If you're as brave as I always supposed, Mr.  Rooster, you'll defend my family."

Although the rooster was terribly frightened, and wanted to run away, he  simply couldn't desert Henrietta Hen.

"She's a nuisance," he muttered as he marched across the farmyard. "I  don't see why she wanted to bring her chicks out here where Turkey  Proudfoot would see them. She's landed me in a scrape. There won't be  much left of me when that old gobbler gets through with me."

Nevertheless the rooster put on a bold front. Drawing himself up to look  his tallest, he glared at Turkey Proudfoot and said shrilly, "What do  you mean by annoying this lady?"

Turkey Proudfoot gulped. He wondered what had come over his neighbors.  The rooster had always acted afraid of him. Though small, the rooster  was strongly built. And he had a sharp bill and sharp spurs, too. Turkey  Proudfoot noted these details carefully.

"I won't have to fight him," he thought. "I'll behave so fiercely that  the rooster will be glad to run off. And then I'll run after him so  folks will think I am chasing him."

Turkey Proudfoot then began to bluster. He gobbled loudly, without  saying anything at all. He even made a few quick passes at the rooster  with his bill.

To his dismay, the rooster merely dodged. He didn't turn tail and run,  as Turkey Proudfoot had hoped he would.

"I'll have to try something else," Turkey Proudfoot said to himself. So  he flapped his wings and jumped up and down and around the rooster.

The rooster was very ill at ease. But he didn't let Turkey Proudfoot  know that. He kept turning about, so that he faced Turkey Proudfoot all  the time. And he said to Henrietta Hen: "Gather your chicks and get them  out of the way. There's going to be trouble here."

Henrietta Hen obeyed him without a word. And she had no sooner shooed  her youngsters into the chicken house than Turkey Proudfoot gave a loud  laugh--a somewhat forced, yet loud laugh.

"You're just the sort of bird I like," he told the rooster. "I've been  testing you to see if you were brave. I'm delighted to find that you  are. And I suggest that you and I stand by each other and run things in  this yard to suit ourselves. When folks don't do as I tell them to, you  and I will attend to them."

"Agreed!" cried the rooster. He was greatly flattered. "We'll make the  neighbors step lively." And off he went, to find Henrietta Hen and tell  her how he and Turkey Proudfoot were going to help each other.

"You're even sillier than I supposed," she informed the rooster, to his  great astonishment. He had expected nothing but praise from her.

He left her hurriedly. And he felt quite glum.

"She's just like the whole Hen family," he grumbled. "You never can tell  what they're going to do or what they're going to say. They may squawk  and cross the road; they may cross the road and not squawk; they may  squawk and not cross the road; they may not cross the road and not  squawk. I don't believe they know themselves what they are going to do  next."
