BOASTFUL TALK (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  "I SUPPOSE you've heard of my great adventure?" Daddy Longlegs began, as  soon as he learned that Rusty Wren was alone--that is, alone except for  his six growing children inside the house. "No doubt you know all about  my daring deed?"

"Why, no!" Rusty Wren replied, looking at his caller with no little  wonder--for he had always believed Daddy Longlegs to be one of the  mildest and most timid of all the field-people. "What have you been  doing?" Rusty asked.

"Something that you've never done!" Daddy Longlegs told him proudly. "I  took a ride in Farmer Green's wagon yesterday, after the old horse  Ebenezer!"

"Yes! yes! Go on!" Rusty urged him. "What happened to you?"

"What happened to me!" cried Daddy Longlegs. "I should think that  _riding in a wagon_ was adventure enough for anyone, without any other  sort of danger added to it."

But Rusty Wren didn't agree with him.

"Riding in a wagon is nothing," he declared. "Farmer Green rides in one  almost every day. And as for it's being dangerous, there's only the  danger that you'll be late arriving at the place where you're  going--especially if you have to depend on old Ebenezer to take you.  He's several thousand times my size; yet I can fly further in a day than  he can trot in two weeks."

Well, Rusty's scoffing remarks made Daddy Longlegs quite peevish. He had  come to Rusty's house in order to boast. And of course he was  disappointed when he found that Rusty Wren did not think him a hero at  all.

"We'll say no more about the matter," Daddy observed stiffly. "I can see  that you are jealous. And I always make it a rule not to dispute with  jealous people."

Rusty Wren couldn't help feeling somewhat ashamed. He realized that  perhaps he had not been very polite to his caller. "I meant no harm," he  ventured "And if you want to change the subject, I've no objection."

"Very well!" Daddy Longlegs replied. "Let's talk about your cousin's  party at Black Creek. I was sorry not to be present at it. But the high  wind prevented me from travelling that day."

Then it was Rusty Wren's turn to look disappointed.

"There wasn't any party," he said. "Old Mr. Crow was mistaken. My  cousin's party took place exactly a year earlier. So Mr. Crow was twelve  months late with his news."

When he heard that, Daddy Longlegs couldn't help laughing right in Rusty  Wren's face.

"I don't see any joke," Rusty snapped. "I can tell you that it's a good  deal of a disappointment to have your mind all made up for a party, and  then find that there is none."

"Perhaps you're right," said Daddy Longlegs. "Anyhow, I'm glad now that  there was a wind that day, because the wind prevented my walking all the  way to Black Creek for nothing."

"Well, there's no wind now to keep you from walking anywhere you want  to go," said Rusty Wren slyly. He hoped that Daddy Longlegs would take  the hint--and leave, for he did not care to talk with him any longer.  Besides, it was time for Rusty to feed his six growing children.

Soon, to Rusty's relief, Daddy Longlegs began to creep down the trunk of  the cherry tree.

If he had known what was in store for him he might not have left just  then.
