BOBBY'S MISTAKE (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  AFTER a good deal of searching Bobby Bobolink discovered Timothy Turtle  in a pool in Cedar Swamp, sunning himself on an old stump that was half  under water.

"Good morning, Mr. Turtle!" Bobby cried. "Is it true that you have  something to say to me?"

And feeling quite happy and care-free, Bobby began to sing one of his  most sprightly songs. For Mr. Turtle was a slow old fellow. It took him  some time to answer a question, especially when he was dozing.

But the moment Bobby Bobolink began to sing old Mr. Timothy Turtle came  to life instantly. And he was so angry at hearing that rollicking song  that much as he wanted to, he couldn't speak. Somehow the words seemed  to stick in his throat.

And for a few moments Timothy was afraid he was going to choke.

Now Bobby Bobolink was such a lively person that he couldn't keep  still long. Especially when he was singing he liked to be on the  move. So when he saw that Timothy Turtle wasn't going to speak  immediately Bobby leaped from the bush where he was perched and  began flying joyously over the swamp.

All the time he sang with all his might, making so much music that he  could not hear Timothy Turtle calling to him at last.

Once in a while Bobby wheeled above Mr. Turtle, so that the old fellow  might enjoy his best notes. He little knew that Mr. Turtle was crying to  him to stop, for goodness' sake! And noticing that Timothy's mouth was  moving, Bobby Bobolink said to himself:

"He looks terribly fierce; but of course he's only commanding me not to  stop singing."

It was no wonder that Bobby Bobolink thought as he did, because his  neighbors were always begging him to sing something for them.

"It must be that Mr. Turtle wanted to see me so he could ask me to sing  some songs for him," Bobby thought. And wishing to please Timothy  Turtle, Bobby Bobolink sang as he hadn't sung all summer long.

At last Timothy Turtle felt that he couldn't bear to hear another note.  And flopping off the stump, he splashed into the water and sank to the  bottom of the swamp, where he buried his head in the mud.

And there he stayed until he dared hope that Bobby Bobolink had stopped  singing, or gone away to a distant part of the country.

"Has anybody seen Timothy Turtle?" Bobby Bobolink kept calling as soon  as he noticed that Mr. Turtle had vanished. But no one knew where the  old fellow was. And at last Bobby gave up looking for him. But he  thought it strange that Timothy hadn't waited to hear the rest of his  song.

"I hope he isn't ill," Bobby told his friends.

But they only laughed.

"Timothy Turtle is altogether too old and tough to have much the matter  with him," they said. "If he's ill, it's nothing but ill temper."
