BOWS AND ARROWS (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 10)

If Sancho's abduction made a stir, one may easily imagine with what  warmth and interest he was welcomed back when his wrongs and wanderings  were known. For several days he held regular levees, that curious boys  and sympathizing girls might see and pity the changed and curtailed dog.  Sancho behaved with dignified affability, and sat upon his mat in the  coach-house pensively eying his guests, and patiently submitting to  their caresses; while Ben and Thorny took turns to tell the few tragical  facts which were not shrouded in the deepest mystery. If the interesting  sufferer could only have spoken, what thrilling adventures and  hair-breadth escapes he might have related. But, alas! he was dumb; and  the secrets of that memorable month never were revealed.

The lame paw soon healed, the dingy color slowly yielded to many  washings, the woolly coat began to knot up into little curls, a new  collar, handsomely marked, made him a respectable dog, and Sancho was  himself again. But it was evident that his sufferings were not  forgotten; his once sweet temper was a trifle soured; and, with a few  exceptions, he had lost his faith in mankind. Before, he had been the  most benevolent and hospitable of dogs; now, he eyed all strangers  suspiciously, and the sight of a shabby man made him growl and bristle  up, as if the memory of his wrongs still burned hotly within him.

Fortunately, his gratitude was stronger than his resentment, and he  never seemed to forget that he owed his life to Betty,--running to  meet her whenever she appeared, instantly obeying her commands, and  suffering no one to molest her when he walked watchfully beside her,  with her hand upon his neck, as they had walked out of the almost fatal  backyard together, faithful friends for ever.

Miss Celia called them little Una and her lion, and read the pretty  story to the children when they wondered what she meant. Ben, with great  pains, taught the dog to spell "Betty," and surprised her with a display  of this new accomplishment, which gratified her so much that she was  never tired of seeing Sanch paw the five red letters into place, then  come and lay his nose in her hand, as if he added, "That's the name of  my dear mistress."

Of course Bab was glad to have everything pleasant and friendly again;  but in a little dark corner of her heart there was a drop of envy, and a  desperate desire to do something which would make every one in her small  world like and praise her as they did Betty. Trying to be as good and  gentle did not satisfy her; she must do something brave or surprising,  and no chance for distinguishing herself in that way seemed likely to  appear. Betty was as fond as ever, and the boys were very kind to her;  but she felt that they both liked "little Betcinda," as they called her,  best, because she found Sanch, and never seemed to know that she had  done any thing brave in defending him against all odds. Bab did not tell  any one how she felt, but endeavored to be amiable, while waiting for  her chance to come; and, when it did arrive, made the most of it, though  there was nothing heroic to add a charm.

Miss Celia's arm had been doing very well, but would, of course, be  useless for some time longer. Finding that the afternoon readings amused  herself as much as they did the children, she kept them up, and brought  out all her old favorites enjoying a double pleasure in seeing that her  young audience relished them as much as she did when a child for to all  but Thorny they were brand new. Out of one of these stories came much  amusement for all, and satisfaction for one of the party.

"Celia, did you bring our old bows?" asked her brother, eagerly, as she  put down the book from which she had been reading Miss Edgeworth's  capital story of "Waste not Want not; or, Two Strings to your Bow."

"Yes, I brought all the playthings we left stored away in uncle's garret  when we went abroad. The bows are in the long box where you found the  mallets, fishing-rods, and bats. The old quivers and a few arrows are  there also, I believe. What is the idea now? asked Miss Celia in her  turn, as Thorny bounced up in a great hurry.

"I'm going to teach Ben to shoot.  Grand fun this hot weather; and  by-and-by we'll have an archery meeting, and you can give us a prize.  Come on, Ben. I've got plenty of whip-cord to rig up the bows, and then  we'll show the ladies some first-class shooting."

"I can't; never had a decent bow in my life.  The little gilt one I used  to wave round when I was a Coopid wasn't worth a cent to go," answered  Ben, feeling as if that painted "prodigy" must have been a very distant  connection of the respectable young person now walking off arm in arm  with the lord of the manor.

"Practice is all you want.  I used to be a capital shot, but I don't  believe I could hit any thing but a barn-door now," answered Thorny,  encouragingly.

As the boys vanished, with much tramping of boots and banging of doors,  Bab observed, in the young-ladyish tone she was apt to use when she  composed her active little mind and body to the feminine task of  needlework,--

"We used to make bows of whalebone when we were little girls, but we are  too old to play so now."

"I'd like to, but Bab won't, 'cause she 's most 'leven years old," said  honest Betty, placidly rubbing her needle in the "ruster," as she called  the family emery-bag.

"Grown people enjoy archery, as bow and arrow shooting is called,  especially in England. I was reading about it the other day, and saw a  picture of Queen Victoria with her bow; so you needn't be ashamed of it,  Bab," said Miss Celia, rummaging among the books and papers in her sofa  corner to find the magazine she wanted, thinking a new play would be as  good for the girls as for the big boys.

"A queen, just think!" and Betty looked much impressed by the fact, as  well as uplifted by the knowledge that her friend did not agree in  thinking her silly because she preferred playing with a harmless  home-made toy to firing stones or snapping a pop-gun.

"In old times, bows and arrows were used to fight great battles with;  and we read how the English archers shot so well that the air was dark  with arrows, and many men were killed."

"So did the Indians have 'em; and I've got some stone arrow-heads,--found  'em by the river, in the dirt!" cried Bab, waking up, for battles  interested her more than queens.

"While you finish your stints I'll tell you a little story about the  Indians," said Miss Celia, lying back on her cushions, while the needles  began to go again, for the prospect of a story could not be resisted.

"A century or more ago, in a small settlement on the banks of the  Connecticut,--which means the Long River of Pines,--there lived a  little girl called Matty Kilburn. On a hill stood the fort where the  people ran for protection in any danger, for the country was new and  wild, and more than once the Indians had come down the river in their  canoes and burned the houses, killed men, and carried away women and  children. Matty lived alone with her father, but felt quite safe in the  log house, for he was never far away. One afternoon, as the farmers were  all busy in their fields, the bell rang suddenly,--a sign that there  was danger near,--and, dropping their rakes or axes, the men hurried  to their houses to save wives and babies, and such few treasures as they  could. Mr. Kilburn caught up his gun with one hand and his little girl  with the other, and ran as fast as he could toward the fort. But before  he could reach it he heard a yell, and saw the red men coming up from  the river. Then he knew it would be in vain to try to get in, so he  looked about for a safe place to hide Matty till he could come for her.  He was a brave man, and could fight, so he had no thought of hiding  while his neighbors needed help; but the dear little daughter must be  cared for first.

"In the corner of the lonely pasture which they dared not cross, stood a  big hollow elm, and there the farmer hastily hid Matty, dropping her  down into the dim nook, round the mouth of which young shoots had grown,  so that no one would have suspected any hole was there.

"Lie still, child, till I come; say your prayers and wait for father,'  said the man, as he parted the leaves for a last glance at the small,  frightened face looking up at him.

"'Come soon,' whispered Matty, and tried to smile bravely, as a stout  settler's girl should.

"Mr. Kilburn went away, and was taken prisoner in the fight, carried  off, and for years no one knew whether he was alive or dead. People  missed Matty, but supposed she was with her father, and never expected  to see her again. A great while afterward the poor man came back, having  escaped and made his way through the wilderness to his old home. His  first question was for Matty, but no one had seen her; and when he told  them where he had left her, they shook their heads as if they thought he  was crazy. But they went to look, that he might be satisfied; and he  was; for they they found some little bones, some faded bits of cloth,  and two rusty silver buckles marked with Matty's name in what had once  been her shoes. An Indian arrow lay there, too, showing why she had  never cried for help, but waited patiently so long for father to come  and find her."

If Miss Celia expected to see the last bit of hem done when her story  ended, she was disappointed; for not a dozen stitches had been taken.  Betty was using her crash towel for a handkerchief, and Bab's lay on the  ground as she listened with snapping eyes to the little tragedy.

"Is it true?" asked Betty, hoping to find relief in being told that it  was not.

"Yes; I have seen the tree, and the mound where the fort was, and the  rusty buckles in an old farmhouse where other Kilburns live, near the  spot where it all happened," answered Miss Celia, looking out the  picture of Victoria to console her auditors.

"We'll play that in the old apple-tree.  Betty can scrooch down, and  I'll be the father, and put leaves on her, and then I'll be a great  Injun and fire at her. I can make arrows, and it will be fun, won't it?"  cried Bab, charmed with the new drama in which she could act the leading  parts.

"No, it won't! I don't like to go in a cobwebby hole, and have you play  kill me, I'll make a nice fort of hay, and be all safe, and you can put  Dinah down there for Matty. I don't love her any more, now her last eye  has tumbled out, and you may shoot her just as much as yon like."

Before Bab could agree to this satisfactory arrangement, Thorny  appeared, singing, as he aimed at a fat robin, whose red waistcoat  looked rather warm and winterish that August day,--



"So he took up his bow,

  And he feathered his arrow,

  And said, 'I will shoot

  This little cock-sparrow.'"

"But he didn't," chirped the robin, flying away, with a contemptuous  flirt of his rusty-black tail.

"That is exactly what you must promise not to do, boys.  Fire away at  your targets as much as you like, but do not harm any living creature,"  said Miss Celia, as Ben followed armed and equipped with her own  long-unused accoutrements.

"Of course we won't if you say so; but, with a little practice, I could  bring down a bird as well as that fellow you read to me about with his  woodpeckers and larks and herons," answered Thorny, who had much enjoyed  the article, while his sister lamented over the destruction of the  innocent birds.

"You'd do well to borrow the Squire's old stuffed owl for a target;  there would be some chance of your hitting him, he is so big," said his  sister, who always made fun of the boy when he began to brag.

Thorny's only reply was to send his arrow straight up so far out of  sight that it was a long while coming down again to stick quivering in  the ground near by, whence Sancho brought it in his mouth, evidently  highly approving of a game in which he could join.

"Not bad for a beginning.  Now, Ben, fire away."

But Ben's experience with bows was small, and, in spite of his  praiseworthy efforts to imitate his great exemplar, the arrow only  turned a feeble sort of somersault and descended perilously near Bab's  uplifted nose.

"If you endanger other people's life and liberty in your pursuit of  happiness, I shall have to confiscate your arms, boys. Take the orchard  for your archery ground; that is safe, and we can see you as we sit  here. I wish I had two hands, so that I could paint you a fine, gay  target;" and Miss Celia looked regretfully at the injured arm, which as  yet was of little use.

"I wish you could shoot, too; you used to beat all the girls, and I was  proud of you," answered Thorny, with the air of a fond elder brother;  though, at the time he alluded to, he was about twelve, and hardly up to  his sister's shoulder.

"Thank you. I shall be happy to give my place to Bab and Betty if you  will make them some bows and arrows; they could not use those long  ones."

The young gentlemen did not take the hint as quickly as Miss Celia hoped  they would; in fact, both looked rather blank at the suggestion, as boys  generally do when it is proposed that girls--especially small ones--shall  join in any game they are playing.

"P'r'aps it would be too much trouble," began Betty, in her winning  little voice.

"I can make my own," declared Bab, with an independent toss of the head.

"Not a bit; I'll make you the jolliest small bow that ever was,  Belinda," Thorny hastened to say, softened by the appealing glance of  the little maid.

"You can use mine, Bab; you've got such a strong fist, I guess you  could pull it," added Ben, remembering that it would not be amiss to  have a comrade who shot worse than he did, for he felt very inferior to  Thorny in many ways, and, being used to praise, had missed it very much  since he retired to private life.

"I will be umpire, and brighten up the silver arrow I sometimes pin my  hair with, for a prize, unless we can find something better," proposed  Miss Celia, glad to see that question settled, and every prospect of the  new play being a pleasant amusement for the hot weather.

It was astonishing how soon archery became the fashion in that town, for  the boys discussed it enthusiastically all that evening, formed the  "William Tell Club" next day, with Bab and Betty as honorary members,  and, before the week was out, nearly every lad was seen, like young  Norval, "With bended bow and quiver full of arrows," shooting away,  with a charming disregard of the safety of their fellow citizens.  Banished by the authorities to secluded spots, the members of the club  set up their targets and practised indefatigably, especially Ben, who  soon discovered that his early gymnastics had given him a sinewy arm and  a true eye; and, taking Sanch into partnership as picker-up, he got more  shots out of an hour than those who had to run to and fro.

Thorny easily recovered much of his former skill, but his strength had  not fully returned, and he soon grew tired. Bab, on the contrary, threw  herself into the contest heart and soul, and tugged away at the new bow  Miss Celia gave her, for Ben's was too heavy. No other girls were  admitted, so the outsiders got up a club of their own, and called it  "The Victoria," the name being suggested by the magazine article, which  went the rounds as a general guide and reference book. Bab and Betty  belonged to this club and duly reported the doings of the boys, with  whom they had a right to shoot if they chose, but soon waived the right,  plainly seeing that their absence would be regarded in the light of a  favor.

The archery fever raged as fiercely as the base-ball epidemic had done  before it, and not only did the magazine circulate freely, but Miss  Edgeworth's story, which was eagerly read, and so much admired that the  girls at once mounted green ribbons, and the boys kept yards of  whip-cord in their pockets like the provident Benjamin of the tale.

Every one enjoyed the new play very much, and something grew out of it  which was a lasting pleasure to many, long after the bows and arrows  were forgotten. Seeing how glad the children were to get a new story,  Miss Celia was moved to send a box of books--old and new--to the  town library, which was but scantily supplied, as country libraries are  apt to be. This donation produced a good effect; for other people hunted  up all the volumes they could spare for the same purpose, and the dusty  shelves in the little room behind the post-office filled up amazingly.  Coming in vacation time they were hailed with delight, and ancient books  of travel, as well as modern tales, were feasted upon by happy young  folks, with plenty of time to enjoy them in peace.

The success of her first attempt at being a public benefactor pleased  Miss Celia very much, and suggested other ways in which she might serve  the quiet town, where she seemed to feel that work was waiting for her  to do. She said little to any one but the friend over the sea, yet  various plans were made then that blossomed beautifully by-and-by.
