Boy Lost! (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  [Illustration: 14 Boy Lost!]

  Poor Mrs. Rabbit didn't know what to do. Her son Jimmy had not been home  since early morning; and she was sure he was lost. She hurried through  the woods, looking for him everywhere. But not a trace of him could she  find. No one had seen him.

At last Mrs. Rabbit happened to meet Jasper Jay.

"Have you seen Jimmy?" she asked.

"Yes!" he said. "Right after breakfast I saw him hurrying along the road  by the river. The gypsies have a camp there. And I wouldn't be a bit  surprised if they had stolen him," he added very cheerfully.

When Mrs. Rabbit heard that she was terribly upset.

"Oh, dear! Oh, dear!" she cried. "Whatever shall I do?"

"The usual thing," Jasper Jay told her, "is to offer a reward."

"Is that so?" said Mrs. Rabbit. "I've never done anything like that.  Will you help me?"

"Why, certainly!" said Jasper. And he set to work and painted a big  sign, which looked like this:

  LOST, STRAYED, OR STOLEN!

  A boy in a checkered suit, with a short

tail and long ears. He answers to the

name of Jimmy Rabbit. A reward will be

paid for his return, and no questions asked.







  MRS. RABBIT,









Near the Big Pine Tree.

"There!" said Jasper Jay, proudly. "That ought to fetch him, if anything  will." And he and Mrs. Rabbit took the sign down to the road and hung it  on a fence-post.

"Why do you say 'No questions asked'?" she inquired.

"That's the way it's always done," said Jasper.

Now, it was almost as Jasper Jay had thought. Jimmy Rabbit was at the  gypsies' camp. But he hadn't been stolen. He was skulking about, as near  the gypsies as he dared to go. And he was so interested in what he saw  that he had entirely forgotten to go home to dinner. But late in the  afternoon he began to have such a queer feeling in his stomach that he  remembered then that he had had nothing to eat since breakfast. And he  started off up the road, towards home.

You can imagine how surprised he was when he stopped and read Jasper  Jay's sign. As soon as he had read it a second time he decided that he  had better hurry home a little faster. For he could see that his mother  was worried.

So Jimmy jumped through the fence and went hopping across the meadow.  Soon he was home again; and Mrs. Rabbit was hugging him and asking him  where he had been and what he had been doing.

Jimmy was just going to tell her. But he happened to think that when his  mother learned that he had been at the gypsies' camp all day she might  not be pleased. And then he remembered that sign.

"Why don't you answer me?" Mrs. Rabbit asked. "You'd better speak up at  once. Where have you been?"

"But the sign said 'No questions asked'!" Jimmy reminded her.

When she heard that, Mrs. Rabbit gasped.

"Yes!" Jimmy went on. "And it said 'A reward will be paid for his  return'!"

Mrs. Rabbit gasped again. She saw that Jasper Jay had got her into  trouble. It seemed to her that it would be very hard to have to pay a  reward to her own son. But Mrs. Rabbit was a person who always kept her  word.

"Well," she said, "what do you want?"

"I think," Jimmy told her, "that I would like something to eat."

"Then the gypsies didn't give you your dinner," Mrs. Rabbit said.

"No, Mother!" Jimmy answered, before he thought. So you see that Mrs.  Rabbit found out where he had been, after all, even though she asked no  questions.

It is very hard to keep anything from one's mother.
