BROWNIE SAVES THE DAM (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

Brownie Beaver was always glad that he had taken Grandaddy's adviceabout the freshet. And Brownie's neighbors were glad that he had, too.For that was really the only thing that saved the village from beingcarried away by the flood of water that swept down upon the pond,after it had rained for two days and two nights.

The pond rose so quickly and the water rushed past so fast that peoplehad to scramble out of their houses and begin working on them, to keepthem from being washed away.

That rush of water meant only one thing. The pond was full and runningover! And just as likely as not the dam would be carried away--the damon which Grandaddy Beaver had worked when he was a youngster, and onwhich his own grandaddy had worked before him. It would take years andyears to build another such dam as that.

Now, with almost everybody working on his own house, there was almostno one left to work upon the dam. But people never stopped to thinkabout that. They never once remembered that out of the whole villageold Grandaddy and Brownie Beaver were the only persons whose houseshad been made ready for the freshet and that those two were the onlypeople with nothing to do at home.

"There'll be plenty to help save the dam," everybody said to himself."I'll just work on my house."

Now, Brownie Beaver knew that there was nothing more he could do tomake his house safe, so he swam over to the dam, expecting to find agood many of his neighbors there. But old Grandaddy Beaver was theonly other person he found. And he seemed worried.

"It's a great pity!" he said to Brownie. "Here's this fine dam, whichhas taken so many years to build, and it's a-going to be washedaway--you mark my words!"

"What makes you think that?" asked Brownie.

"There's nobody here to do anything," said Grandaddy Beaver. "Thespillways of this dam ought to be made as big as possible, to let thefreshet pass through. But I can't do it, for I can't swim as well as Icould once."

Brownie Beaver looked at the rushing water which poured over the topof the dam in a hundred places and was already carrying off mud andsticks, eating the dam away before his very eyes.

"I'll save the dam!" he cried. "You?" Grandaddy Beaver exclaimed."Why, what do you think you can do?" Being so old, he couldn't helpbelieving that other people were too young to do difficult things.

"Watch me and I'll show you!" Brownie Beaver told him. And withoutsaying another word he swam to the nearest spillway and began makingit bigger.

Sometimes he had to fight the freshet madly, to keep from being sweptover the dam himself. Sometimes, too, as he stood on the dam itcrumbled beneath him and he found himself swimming again.

How many narrow escapes he had that day Brownie Beaver could neverremember. When they happened, he didn't have time to count them, hewas working so busily. And if old Grandaddy Beaver hadn't toldeveryone afterward, how Brownie saved the great dam from being sweptaway, and how hard he had worked, and how he had swum fearlessly intothe torrent, people wouldn't have known anything about it.

To be sure, they had noticed that the water went down almost assuddenly as it rose. But they hadn't stopped to think that there musthave been some reason for that. And when they learned that BrownieBeaver was the reason, the whole village gave him a vote of thanks.

They wanted to give him a gold-headed cane, too. But they were unableto find one anywhere.

When Brownie Beaver heard of that he said it was just as well, becausehe seldom walked far on land and there wasn't much use in a person'scarrying a cane when he swam, anyhow. Although it was sometimes done,he had always considered it a silly practice--and one that he wouldnot care to follow.
