BROWNIE ESCAPES (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 9)

When the tree crashed down upon Brownie Beaver and held him fast, itwas some time before he came to his senses. Then he did not know, atfirst, where he was nor what had happened to him. But at last heremembered that he had been cutting down a tree not far from the pondand he saw that it must have fallen upon him.

Of course, the first thing that occurred to him was to call for help.But just as he opened his mouth to shout, another thought came intohis head. _Perhaps some man might hear him--or a bear!_ And BrownieBeaver closed his mouth as quickly as he had opened it.

Then he tried to squirm from under the tree-trunk. But he couldn'tmove himself at all. Next he tried to push the tree away from him. Buthe couldn't move the tree either.

For a long while Brownie Beaver struggled, first at one impossiblething, and then at the other. And all the time the tree seemed to growheavier and heavier.

Finally, Brownie stopped trying to get free and began to feel hungry.

You can see that he must have been worried, because there was thetree, with plenty of bark on it which he could eat. But he nevernoticed it for a long time.

At last, however, he happened to remember that in the beginning he hadstarted to cut down that very tree so he could reach the bark and eatit.

Then Brownie Beaver had a good meal. And just as he finished eating,another thought came into his head. _Why shouldn't he gnaw rightthrough the tree?_

Since there seemed to be no answer to that question, he began to gnawbig chips out of the wood. And in a surprisingly short time he had cutthe tree apart just where it pressed upon him.

Then, of course, all he had to do was to get up and walk away.

When he reached the village he found that all his neighbors had beenlooking everywhere for him.

"That is," Grandaddy Beaver explained, "we looked everywhere exceptnear the tree where you had that adventure a few nights ago. I saidyou wouldn't be there, for I advised you to keep away from that spot,as you will recall."

Now, Brownie Beaver said nothing more. He knew that it was anunheard-of thing for one of the Beaver family to be caught by a fallingtree. To have everyone know what had happened to him would be a gooddeal like a disgrace.

But there are plenty of people who would think they had done somethingquite clever if they had gnawed through a tree with their teeth--thoughthat was something that never once entered Brownie Beaver'shead.
