BUFFALO HUNTS (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Johnnie Green found, after a while, that owning a cow wasn't all fun.  There were times when he would have been willing to let his father, or  the hired man, milk the Muley Cow. For instance, a boy from a  neighboring farm might come along about milking-time with a fine plan  for play. Or someone driving past the house on his way to the village  might ask Johnnie to go along too.

Once or twice, on such occasions, Johnnie tried to wriggle out of  milking. But he soon learned better. His father told him that a duty was  a duty.

And Johnnie knew exactly what he meant.

As for the Muley Cow, she went about her business as if no great change  had come into her life. And if now and then she took a notion to look  for better grass in the back pasture on the edge of the woods, she would  jump the fence just as she always had and stray off among the clumps of  trees and bushes.

When Johnnie went to drive the cows home at "cow-come-home time," as he  used to call it when he was younger, he always looked first for the  Muley Cow. And if he didn't see her he always knew what had happened.

"She's in the back pasture again!" Johnnie would exclaim--sometimes none  too pleasantly. For the back pasture stretched way around a shoulder of  the hill, and being half overgrown it offered a fine hiding place for  the old cow. Sometimes it meant a good hour's search before Johnnie  found her.

In days past Johnnie Green had been known to drive the herd home without  noticing that the Muley Cow was missing. But now that she belonged to  him such an oversight never happened. The Muley Cow soon noticed that  Johnnie always came for her, no matter where she went.

"It won't hurt him to hunt for me now and then," she told herself. "A  little work is good for a boy."

Somehow Johnnie Green did not feel just that way about work. He seemed  to have an idea that work was a good thing for a boy to avoid. And if  you couldn't escape it, then the wisest thing to do was to make play of  it. By pretending hard enough, Johnnie had discovered that he could  make a game of almost anything his father wanted him to do.

So it wasn't long before he was enjoying buffalo hunts in the back  pasture. With old dog Spot along it was a lively game and most exciting.

The Muley Cow found it exciting too. The first time that Johnnie tried  to lasso her with a length of his mother's clothesline she started for  home on a lumbering gallop.

And Johnnie chased her until he remembered that it was bad for a cow to  run. Besides, he was out of breath. So he whistled to old Spot, who had  been barking just behind the Muley Cow's heels, and told him to come  back and behave himself.

That night the Muley Cow wouldn't give down her milk for the longest  time. And Johnnie Green knew right well that she was holding it back  because he had teased her.
