BUILDING A HOUSE (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  There came a day when Sandy Chipmunk decided that he was old enough and  big enough to make a house of his own. He was not the sort of person to  think and think about a thing and put off the doing of it from one day to  another. So the moment the idea of a house popped into his head Sandy  Chipmunk began hunting for a good place to dig.

It was not long before he found a bit of ground that seemed to him the  very best spot for a home that any one could want.

The place where he intended to make his front door was in the middle of a  smooth plot among some beech trees. Farmer Green's cows had clipped the  grass short all around. And Sandy knew that he could have a neat dooryard  without being obliged to go to the trouble of cutting the grass himself.  But what he liked most of all about the place was that as he stood there  he could look all around in every direction. That was just what he  wanted, because whenever he wished to leave his new house he would be  able to peep out and see whether anybody was waiting to catch him.

So Sandy Chipmunk took off his little, short coat, folded it carefully,  and laid it down upon the grass. Then he pulled off his necktie and  unbuttoned his collar. Just because he was going to dig in the ground  there was no reason why he should get his clothes dirty.

After that Sandy Chipmunk set to work. And you should have seen how he  made the earth fly. When night came and he had to stop working there was  a big heap of dirt beneath the beech trees, to show how busy Sandy had  been. There was a big hole in the pasture, too. But it was nothing at  all, compared with the hole Sandy had dug by the time he had finished  his house.

Every morning Sandy Chipmunk came back to the grove of beech trees to  work upon his new house. And it was not many days before his burrow was  so deep that when winter came the ground about his chamber would not  freeze. It was what Farmer Green would have called "below frost-line."

You must not think it was an easy matter for Sandy Chipmunk to dig a  home. You must remember that somehow he had to bring the dirt out of his  tunnel to the top of the ground. And he did that by _pushing it ahead of  him with his nose_.

You may laugh when you hear that. But for Sandy Chipmunk it was no  laughing matter. If _he_ had laughed, just as likely as not he would have  found his mouth full of dirt. And you can understand that that wouldn't  have been very pleasant.

As it was, his face was very dirty. But he never went back to his  mother's house until he had washed it carefully, just as a cat washes her  face.

Sometimes Sandy found stones in his way, down there beneath the pasture.  And those he had to push up, too. Sometimes a stone was too big to crowd  through the opening into the world outside. And then Sandy had to make  the opening bigger. After he had done that, and pushed the stone out upon  his dirt-pile, he would make his doorway smaller again by packing earth  firmly into it.

You must not suppose that when Sandy brought the loose dirt and stones up  through his doorway he left them there. Not at all! He pushed all the  litter some distance away. And whenever he turned, to scamper down into  his burrow again, he would kick behind him, as hard as he could, to  scatter the dirt still further from his new house.

After Sandy had made himself a chamber where he could sleep, and where he  could store enough food to last him throughout the winter, any one would  naturally imagine that his house was finished. But Sandy Chipmunk was not  yet satisfied with his new home. There was still something else that he  wanted to do to it.
