BUSTER MAKES A SPEECH (Fable Ages 3 to 5)

  At first, when he found himself in the grip of what he was sure must be  the Robber Fly, Buster Bumblebee was so alarmed that he could not even  scream. But in a moment or two he found his voice. And he shrieked "Help!  Help!" in a most frantic tone, hoping that some one would come and save  him.

But nobody came. And Buster expected every instant to feel the cruel beak  of the Robber Fly, when there was a sudden commotion behind his back.  Somebody else cried out now. And Buster knew the voice, too. Yes! Buster  was sure that Peevish Peggy had come to help him. But there was one thing  that puzzled him. Peevish Peggy seemed to be fully as frightened as  Buster himself. At least, her cries sounded as if she were in great  terror.

Probably she's afraid the Robber Fly has hurt me, Buster thought. And he  reflected that in spite of her sharp tongue Peevish Peggy was more  kind-hearted than he had ever dreamed.

The next instant Buster felt himself suddenly released. At the same time  something swept him off the clover-top; and he barely managed to save  himself from a bad fall.

Somewhere he could hear a loud buzz, as of several angry voices. But he  did not care to show himself enough to find out what was happening. For  the time being he was content to stay snugly hidden among the thick  clover leaves.

[Illustration: Buster Shouted For Everybody to Keep Quiet. (_Page 48_)]

After a while the uproar ceased. But even then Buster Bumblebee was in no  hurry to leave his shelter.

When he did at last reach home he found the whole family much upset.  Everybody was talking at once. And in a household of more than two  hundred that meant that the noise was almost deafening.

Naturally, Buster Bumblebee wanted to know what was the matter. It was a  long time, however, before anyone would--or could--listen to him. But at  last he succeeded in getting the ear of the trumpeter.

"Haven't you heard the news?" she asked. "The Robber Fly came to the  clover patch to-day. And Peevish Peggy had a very narrow escape. If it  hadn't been for several other workers who happened to be gathering clover  nectar nearby, there's no telling where she would be now."

"Where is she?" Buster inquired.

"Resting in bed," the trumpeter explained. (Even Buster wondered how she  could rest with all that racket in the house!) "She's had a bad fright,  poor thing!" the trumpeter added.

Buster Bumblebee suddenly grew much excited. And he climbed up on a table  and shouted for everybody to be quiet.

"I don't believe you know about me!" he cried, as soon as the house was  still. "The Robber Fly attacked me. But _I_ don't need to go to bed. I'm  not the least bit nervous."

Several of the family near him began to titter.

And the Queen herself stepped forward and commanded Buster to hop down  from the table at once.

He obeyed promptly. But he was quite puzzled. No one seemed to believe  what he said. And it was a long time before he learned what had actually  happened. At last a spiteful worker informed him that he had never been  in the clutches of the Robber Fly at all. Peevish Peggy and some of her  companions had played a trick on Buster--because of his boasting. She had  seized him when he wasn't looking. And he had screamed so loud that the  Robber Fly--who happened to be near--had heard him.

Then the Robber Fly had rushed up and seized Peevish Peggy, who had  promptly let go of Buster Bumblebee.

The worker who told these things to Buster Bumblebee actually laughed in  his face. And Buster was so surprised--and so crestfallen--that he  couldn't say a word for a long time.

And never again did Buster mention the Robber Fly's name.
