BUSTER LEARNS OF THE RAISING BEE (Fable Ages 3 to 5)

  "Yes!" said Jimmy Rabbit. "I hear that there's going to be a raising bee  at Farmer Green's place to-morrow. And if I were you I should certainly  want to be there."

Being very good-natured, Jimmy Rabbit was always ready to talk to anybody  he happened to meet, no matter how small the other person might be. And  now, while he was nibbling at Farmer Green's lettuce, he had chanced to  glance up and spy Buster Bumblebee, who was buzzing about the tall  hollyhocks, which made a sort of hedge where the flower and the vegetable  garden met.

"A raising bee!" Buster Bumblebee exclaimed, when he heard Jimmy Rabbit's  bit of news. "I've never in my life seen that kind of bee--nor heard of  it, either.... It must be a great curiosity."

"Yes!" said Jimmy Rabbit. "And you ought not to miss seeing this one. I'd  like to go over to the farmhouse to-morrow myself--if I had the time."

"Well, I'm going, anyhow," Buster declared. "And when next I see you I'll  tell you all about this strange bee. For all we know now it may be  nothing but a honey bee that has changed his name."

Jimmy Rabbit only smiled at his small friend. He said nothing at  all--though he looked uncommonly wise.

"What time to-morrow can I get a peep at this 'raising bee,' as he calls  himself?" Buster Bumblebee inquired.

"You had better plan to reach the farmyard at nine o'clock sharp," Jimmy  Rabbit advised him.

"How shall I know where to look?" Buster asked him.

"Oh! you'll have no trouble finding the raising bee," Jimmy replied.  "Just follow the crowd! All of Farmer Green's friends for miles around  will be there."

"Is that so?" said Buster. "What are they coming for?"

"Why, they've heard about the raising bee, too," Jimmy told him. "Farmer  Green has invited everybody to come to his house. And there'll be plenty  to eat for everyone. No doubt they'll have a dance, too, in the  afternoon--just before milking time. Of course they'll all have to go  home in time to milk the cows," Jimmy explained.

"I suppose so," Buster remarked. "And I must say I'm glad that I have no  cows, for it has always seemed to me that they are only a nuisance."

Jimmy Rabbit agreed heartily in that opinion.

"Yes!" Buster Bumblebee continued. "Farmer Green has many strange ways.  Now, what's the sense of having a vegetable garden? And yet I understand  that he always plants one over there where you're sitting."

Jimmy Rabbit shook his head.

"I can't quite agree with you," he said quickly, "though I've always  claimed that a flower garden is just a waste of time."

"What a strange notion!" cried Buster Bumblebee. "To my way of thinking,  this flower garden is the best thing Farmer Green has--unless it's the  clover patch."

Now, some people would have flown into a temper at once on being disputed  like that. But Jimmy Rabbit was never known to be angry.

"Billy Woodchuck would agree with you about the clover," he said with a  chuckle. "You know he's very fond of clover-tops."

"He's a sensible chap," Buster Bumblebee declared. "And speaking of  clover makes me so hungry for some that I'm going to the clover patch  this very minute."

So Buster darted away, calling out as he went that he would meet Jimmy at  the hollyhock hedge on the next morning but one.

"I'll tell you all about the raising bee," he promised once more.

And Jimmy Rabbit laughed so heartily that he almost choked over a choice  lettuce leaf.
