BUSTER AND THE FIDDLERS (Fable Ages 3 to 5)

  There was a great rattling of knives and forks dropped suddenly upon  plates and a clatter of cups set hastily upon saucers. For when the boy  with the stomachache screamed aloud in his agony all of Farmer Green's  guests turned towards him to see what was the matter.

Buster Bumblebee saw a large woman dressed in bright red rush up to the  boy Bill and lead him away towards the farmhouse, quite doubled up with  pain.

"That's his mother!" Buster decided. "And it's lucky for him that she's  here."

Everybody else seemed to think likewise. And no one appeared much  worried. At least, all the company fell upon the feast once more. And in  a surprisingly short time everything but the dishes had vanished.

Still the people lingered there and talked--or the grown-ups did, anyhow  (of course the boys and girls didn't want to sit at a table after the  good things had all been eaten off it). And Buster Bumblebee had just  made up his mind that the whole affair was very dull! Yes! he had begun  to wish he had not wasted his time at Farmer Green's party, when suddenly  he heard something that sent a tingle all through him.

It was a most delightful sound. And noticing that the people were leaving  the scene of the banquet, Buster again recalled Jimmy Rabbit's advice to  "follow the crowd." So he found himself shortly in the carriage-house,  from which everything on wheels had been run outside into the farmyard.

At one side of the great square room sat three men, each holding a queer  wooden object, upon which he sawed busily without appearing to cut  anything. And Buster soon learned that the bewitching sound came from the  sawing.

"How do you like the music?" said a voice in Buster's ear. He turned  quickly. And he saw then that old dog Spot had followed the crowd too and  was sitting in the doorway, where everyone had to walk around him. He  seemed to be enjoying himself. And he kept thumping the floor with his  tail as if he were trying to keep time with the tune.

"The music is beautiful," Buster Bumblebee said in reply to Spot's  question. "But there's something I don't quite understand. I've seen men  sawing wood before, but they made no such sound as this."

Old dog Spot couldn't help smiling the least bit.

"Why, those men aren't sawing wood. They're _fiddling_," he explained;  "three fiddlers fiddling upon fiddles.... There's going to be a dance,  you know," old dog Spot continued. "And of course nobody cares to dance  without music."

"Oh, certainly not!" Buster Bumblebee agreed. And he began to be glad he  had come to the farmyard, after all. You see, he was fond of music and  dancing. And he thought the music played by the three fiddlers was too  wonderful for words.

Soon the floor was crowded with merry people who bowed and scraped to one  another and danced breakdowns and cut pigeon-wings and other capers,  while Buster Bumblebee flitted gaily about just above their bobbing  heads, trying his best to keep time to the music and wishing that he had  brought some of his friends along with him to Farmer Green's party.

As for the raising bee, Buster had completely forgotten it. He was having  so much fun at the dance that the real reason for his coming to Farmer  Green's place had quite slipped out of his mind.
