BUSTER THE BOASTER (Fable Ages 3 to 5)

  As far back as Buster Bumblebee could remember, he had heard about the  Robber Fly. Even the fiercest fighters among the workers spoke his name  with great awe. And from everything Buster could learn, his family had  good reason to fear that dreadful enemy.

When Buster first left the house to make excursions to the flower garden  and the clover field he had felt quite uneasy. He half-expected that the  Robber Fly would pop out from behind a blossom at any moment and pounce  upon him. For the Robber Fly was a bold, bad villain. And those that were  so unfortunate as to find themselves caught by him and held fast in his  long, spiny feet had only a very slight chance of getting away from him.

No one of the Bumblebee family knew where the Robber Fly lived. But it  was said that he often lurked on the ground, watching for victims. And  when he spied one he would fly quickly up with a loud buzz and dart upon  the unfortunate.

He had big, keen eyes which enabled him to see very clearly. And he had  long, narrow wings which bore him through the air with great swiftness.  And he had--worst of all--a sharp, piercing beak which was most frightful  to gaze upon.

Now, in spite of his name the Robber Fly looked like no fly that was ever  seen in Pleasant Valley. Strange as it may seem, in spite of his cruel  beak, his long wings, and his spiny feet, he looked not a little as if he  might have been a near relation of Buster Bumblebee. Of course, any  member of the Bumblebee family would have known at a glance that he was  not one of them. But probably Johnnie Green--if he had noticed him--would  have thought the Robber Fly some sort of bumblebee.

Since this monster was known to appear now and then in the neighborhood,  one can easily understand why Buster Bumblebee was a bit timid when he  first began to venture abroad alone. But as time passed, his dread of  meeting the Robber Fly gradually faded. Not only had nobody seen the  Robber for a long while, but some began to say that they thought he must  have met with an accident, or perhaps he had moved to other parts, and  they didn't believe he would ever be heard of again. And Buster himself  began to boast that he wasn't afraid of the Robber Fly and said that he  was sorry that the Robber had gone away before he had had a chance to see  him.

Buster's mother, the Queen, happened to hear her son make that remark one  day. And she promptly told him that he was a stupid, silly boaster.

"If you knew what happened to your poor father last fall you would never  want even to hear the Robber Fly's name mentioned again," the Queen  declared, as a shiver--or a shudder--or both--passed up and down her  royal back.

But Buster Bumblebee, being very young and somewhat stupid as well, said  "Oh, nonsense!" under his breath, so low that his mother, the Queen,  could not hear him.
