BUSYBODIES (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

LITTLE Mrs. Ladybug said that she wished Betsy Butterfly no ill luck.But she thought that perhaps it would have been a good thing for her ifJohnnie Green had caught her and put her in his collection.

On hearing that strange remark Mehitable Moth turned quite pale. Shenever wanted Johnnie Green's name mentioned by anyone, because she livedin constant terror for fear he might mistake her for one of theButterfly family and capture her.

"What _do_ you mean?" she asked Mrs. Ladybug, while fat Jennie Junebugwaddled nearer them, in order to hear everything they said. ThoughJennie was sleepy, having stayed out very late the night before, thepromise of a bit of gossip made her brighten up at once.

"I mean--" said Mrs. Ladybug--"I mean that Johnnie Green would certainlyhave brushed Betsy Butterfly before adding her to his collection." Andthen, seeing a blank look on the faces of her hearers, she cried. "Don'ttell me you haven't noticed how untidy Betsy Butterfly is! Can it bepossible that the airs she gives herself, and her fine manners, havedeceived you?"

"What is it?" asked Mehitable Moth breathlessly. And as for JennieJunebug, her breath was coming so fast that she couldn't say a word.

"I'll tell you exactly what I mean," Mrs. Ladybug continued. "I stoppedand spoke to Betsy Butterfly this very morning. And I stepped up closeto her, because I wanted to see if she really does paint her wings, asmy friend Miss Moth, here, suspects," Mrs. Ladybug explained to JennieJunebug. "And what do you think? I saw that Betsy Butterfly was_completely covered with dust_, from head to foot!"

Mehitable Moth looked rather uncomfortable. She was somewhat dustyherself. And she thought that Mrs. Ladybug might be giving her a slydig.

"Perhaps Betsy had been on a journey," she ventured.

"Ah! But there is no dust to-day, on account of the rain we had lastnight," Mrs. Ladybug replied. "I'm convinced that the dust I saw onBetsy Butterfly was _weeks old_."

"The idea!" Jennie Junebug exclaimed. "I should think she'd be ashamedof herself. Did you tell her how untidy she looked?"

Mrs. Ladybug shook her head.

"No!" she answered. "But I've been thinking the matter over. And Ibelieve it's my duty to speak to her about it. I don't see what she'sthinking of, to go about looking like that!"

Miss Moth looked more uneasy than ever, especially when Mrs. Ladybugsaid:

"Wouldn't you like to come with me while I look for Betsy?"

"I must go home now, thank you!" said Mehitable. And she hurried awaywithout another word.

But Jennie Junebug spoke up at once and said she would be delighted toaccompany Mrs. Ladybug.

"Really," Jennie confided to her companion, "it's a good thing to havebacks as hard and slippery as yours and mine. For the dust can't stickto us as it does to some."

"There's no excuse for not keeping oneself neat," Mrs. Ladybug saidseverely. "And I shall give Betsy Butterfly a piece of my mind."
