BUTTERFLY BILL (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

NOW, a crowd had gathered quickly around Betsy Butterfly and Mrs.Ladybug; for the field people are quick to notice anything unusual.And a sprightly young cousin of Betsy's known as Butterfly Bill saidto Mrs. Ladybug, with a wink at everybody else:

"I suppose you'll dust the rest of us, too?"

"Only those that need it!" replied Mrs. Ladybug.

"Then you'll have your hands full," Butterfly Bill told her. "Maybe youhaven't noticed that every member of the Butterfly family in PleasantValley is covered with dust just as Betsy is."

Mrs. Ladybug looked surprised.

"Is that so?" she said faintly.

"It certainly is!" Bill cried. "Maybe you never knew that the dust iswhat gives us our--_ahem_--our beautiful colors," he added proudly. "AndI warn you that if you so much as touch my lovely cousin with that brushyou'll have every one of us fellows in your hair."

Of course poor Mrs. Ladybug was quite bald. But she knew what ButterflyBill meant. And she was so upset that she promptly let the paint-brushfall to the ground.

Then Betsy's cousin nodded approvingly.

"Now you'd better hurry home," he told Mrs. Ladybug. "There's a rumoraround the meadow that your house is on fire. And they say yourchildren are in great danger."

Little Mrs. Ladybug at once fell to weeping.

"It's that horrid Freddie Firefly!" she shrieked. "I've told him to keepaway from my home. I've told him that he would set it to blazing withthat light of his. But he's forever sneaking around my house as soon asmy back is turned."

"There, there! Don't be frightened!" Betsy Butterfly said to hersoothingly. "It's only a rumor, you know."

"That's so," Mrs. Ladybug admitted, drying her eyes. "I hear it almostevery day, too. But I never can get used to it.... I suppose this isonly a false alarm, after all."

"I wouldn't be so sure about that," Butterfly Bill said wickedly, witha shake of his head. "And if I were you I'd look after my own family alittle more carefully, instead of troubling myself with other people'saffairs."

Several of Bill's friends applauded his speech. But Betsy Butterflywhispered to him to hush.

"Don't you see that Mrs. Ladybug is not quite herself?" she asked him.

But Butterfly Bill was not a person to be easily silenced like that.

"She's a meddling busybody!" he declared. "And it's my opinion that sheought to be put where she'll have to mind her own business."

"Who--me?" called a wheezing voice right in his ear.

Turning, Butterfly Bill saw that it was Jennie Junebug who had spokento him. She had noticed the crowd from a distance. And she had justarrived, quite out of breath.

Before Betsy Butterfly's cousin Bill could answer, Jennie Junebugactually threatened him.

"If you were talking about me I shall have to knock you down," shedeclared.

He had heard that Jennie delighted in flying _bang_ into anybody. Buthe did not know that she indulged in that unladylike trick _only afterdark_.

"Of course I didn't mean you!" he said hastily.

"And I hope you didn't mean my friend Mrs. Ladybug, either," JennieJunebug added. "For if you did----"

But Butterfly Bill waited to hear no more. Thoroughly frightened, hesought safety in flight. And as he flew away Mrs. Ladybug couldn't helpnoticing the dust on his wings.

"They're certainly a peculiar lot--that Butterfly family!" shemuttered.
