Button-Bright is Lost and Found Again (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)



  "Wake up--wake up!" called the voice of the Bumpy Man. "Didn't I tell  you winter was coming? I could hear it coming with my left ear, and the  proof is that it is now snowing hard outside."

"Is it?" said Trot, rubbing her eyes and creeping out of her blanket.  "Where I live, in California, I have never seen snow, except far away  on the tops of high mountains."

"Well, this is the top of a high mountain," returned the bumpy one,  "and for that reason we get our heaviest snowfalls right here."

The little girl went to  the window and looked out. The air was filled  with falling white flakes, so large in size and so queer in form that  she was puzzled.

"Are you certain this is snow?" she asked.

"To be sure. I must get my snow-shovel and turn out to shovel a path.  Would you like to come with me?"

"Yes," she said, and followed the Bumpy Man out when he opened the  door. Then she exclaimed: "Why, it isn't cold a bit!"

"Of course not," replied the man. "It was cold last night, before the  snowstorm; but snow, when it falls, is always crisp and warm."

Trot gathered a handful of it.

"Why, it's popcorn?" she cried.

"Certainly; all snow is popcorn. What did you expect it to be?"

"Popcorn is not snow in my country."

"Well, it is the only snow we have in the Land of Mo, so you may as  well make the best of it," said he, a little impatiently. "I'm not  responsible for the absurd things that happen in your country, and when  you're in Mo you must do as the Momen do. Eat some of our snow, and you  will find it is good. The only fault I find with our snow is that we  get too much of it at times."

With this the Bumpy Man set to work shoveling a path and he was so  quick and industrious that he piled up the popcorn in great banks on  either side of the trail that led to the mountain-top from the plains  below. While he worked, Trot ate popcorn and found it crisp and  slightly warm, as well as nicely salted and buttered. Presently Cap'n  Bill came out of the house and joined her.

"What's this?" he asked.

"Mo snow," said she. "But it isn't real snow, although it falls from  the sky. It's popcorn."

Cap'n Bill tasted it; then he sat down in the path and began to eat.  The Ork came out and pecked away with its bill as fast as it could.  They all liked popcorn and they all were hungry this morning.

Meantime the flakes of "Mo snow" came down so fast that the number of  them almost darkened the air. The Bumpy Man was now shoveling quite a  distance down the mountain-side, while the path behind him rapidly  filled up with fresh-fallen popcorn. Suddenly Trot heard him call out:

"Goodness gracious--mince pie and pancakes!--here is some one buried in  the snow."

She ran toward him at once and the others followed, wading through the  corn and crunching it underneath their feet. The Mo snow was pretty  deep where the Bumpy Man was shoveling and from beneath a great bank of  it he had uncovered a pair of feet.

"Dear me!  Someone has been lost in the storm," said Cap'n Bill. "I  hope he is still alive. Let's pull him out and see."

He took hold of one foot and the Bumpy Man took hold of the other. Then  they both pulled and out from the heap of popcorn came a little boy. He  was dressed in a brown velvet jacket and knickerbockers, with brown  stockings, buckled shoes and a blue shirt-waist that had frills down  its front. When drawn from the heap the boy was chewing a mouthful of  popcorn and both his hands were full of it. So at first he couldn't  speak to his rescuers but lay quite still and eyed them calmly until he  had swallowed his mouthful. Then he said:

"Get my cap," and stuffed more popcorn into his mouth.

While the Bumpy Man began shoveling into the corn-bank to find the  boy's cap, Trot was laughing joyfully and Cap'n Bill had a broad grin  on his face. The Ork looked from one to another and asked:

"Who is this stranger?"

"Why, it's Button-Bright, of course," answered Trot. "If anyone ever  finds a lost boy, he can make up his mind it's Button-Bright. But how  he ever came to be lost in this far-away country is more'n I can make  out."

"Where does he belong?" inquired the Ork.

"His home used to be in Philadelphia, I think; but I'm quite sure  Button-Bright doesn't belong anywhere."

"That's right," said the boy, nodding his head as he swallowed the  second mouthful.

"Everyone belongs somewhere," remarked the Ork.

"Not me," insisted Button-Bright. "I'm half way round the world from  Philadelphia, and I've lost my Magic Umbrella, that used to carry me  anywhere. Stands to reason that if I can't get back I haven't any home.  But I don't care much. This is a pretty good country, Trot. I've had  lots of fun here."

By this time the Mountain Ear had secured the boy's cap and was  listening to the conversation with much interest.

"It seems you know this poor, snow-covered cast-away," he said.

"Yes, indeed," answered Trot.  "We made a journey together to Sky  Island, once, and were good friends."

"Well, then I'm glad I saved his life," said the Bumpy Man.

"Much obliged, Mr. Knobs," said Button-Bright, sitting up and staring  at him, "but I don't believe you've saved anything except some popcorn  that I might have eaten had you not disturbed me. It was nice and warm  in that bank of popcorn, and there was plenty to eat. What made you dig  me out? And what makes you so bumpy everywhere?"

"As for the bumps," replied the man, looking at himself with much  pride, "I was born with them and I suspect they were a gift from the  fairies. They make me look rugged and big, like the mountain I serve."

"All right," said Button-Bright and began eating popcorn again.

It had stopped snowing, now, and great flocks of birds were gathering  around the mountain-side, eating the popcorn with much eagerness and  scarcely noticing the people at all. There were birds of every size and  color, most of them having gorgeous feathers and plumes.

"Just look at them!" exclaimed the Ork scornfully. "Aren't they  dreadful creatures, all covered with feathers?"

"I think they're beautiful," said Trot, and this made the Ork so  indignant that he went back into the house and sulked.

Button-Bright reached out his hand and caught a big bird by the leg. At  once it rose into the air and it was so strong that it nearly carried  the little boy with it. He let go the leg in a hurry and the bird flew  down again and began to eat of the popcorn, not being frightened in the  least.

This gave Cap'n Bill an idea. He felt in his pocket and drew out  several pieces of stout string. Moving very quietly, so as to not alarm  the birds, he crept up to several of the biggest ones and tied cords  around their legs, thus making them prisoners.  The birds were so  intent on their eating that they did not notice what had happened to  them, and when about twenty had been captured in this manner Cap'n Bill  tied the ends of all the strings together and fastened them to a huge  stone, so they could not escape.

The Bumpy Man watched the old sailor's actions with much curiosity.

"The birds will be quiet until they've eaten up all the snow," he said,  "but then they will want to fly away to their homes. Tell me, sir, what  will the poor things do when they find they can't fly?"

"It may worry 'em a little," replied Cap'n Bill, "but they're not going  to be hurt if they take it easy and behave themselves."

Our friends had all made a good breakfast of the delicious popcorn and  now they walked toward the house again. Button-Bright walked beside  Trot and held her hand in his, because they were old friends and he  liked the little girl very much. The boy was not so old as Trot, and  small as she was he was half a head shorter in height. The most  remarkable thing about Button-Bright was that he was always quiet and  composed, whatever happened, and nothing was ever able to astonish him.  Trot liked him because he was not rude and never tried to plague her.  Cap'n Bill liked him because he had found the boy cheerful and brave at  all times, and willing to do anything he was asked to do.

When they came to the house Trot sniffed the air and asked "Don't I  smell perfume?"

"I think you do," said the Bumpy Man. "You smell violets, and that  proves there is a breeze springing up from the south. All our winds and  breezes are perfumed and for that reason we are glad to have them blow  in our direction. The south breeze always has a violet odor; the north  breeze has the fragrance of wild roses; the east breeze is perfumed  with lilies-of-the-valley and the west wind with lilac blossoms. So we  need no weathervane to tell us which way the wind is blowing. We have  only to smell the perfume and it informs us at once."

Inside the house they found the Ork, and Button-Bright regarded the  strange, birdlike creature with curious interest. After examining it  closely for a time he asked:

"Which way does your tail whirl?"

"Either way," said the Ork.

Button-Bright put out his hand and tried to spin it.

"Don't do that!" exclaimed the Ork.

"Why not?" inquired the boy.

"Because it happens to be my tail, and I reserve the right to whirl it  myself," explained the Ork.

"Let's go out and fly somewhere," proposed Button-Bright. "I want to  see how the tail works."

"Not now," said the Ork. "I appreciate your interest in me, which I  fully deserve; but I only fly when I am going somewhere, and if I got  started I might not stop."

"That reminds me," remarked Cap'n Bill, "to ask you, friend Ork, how we  are going to get away from here?"

"Get away!" exclaimed the Bumpy Man. "Why don't you stay here? You  won't find any nicer place than Mo."

"Have you been anywhere else, sir?"

"No; I can't say that I have," admitted the Mountain Ear.

"Then permit me to say you're no judge," declared Cap'n Bill. "But you  haven't answered my question, friend Ork. How are we to get away from  this mountain?"

The Ork reflected a while before he answered.

"I might carry one of you--the boy or the girl--upon my back," said he,  "but three big people are more than I can manage, although I have  carried two of you for a short distance. You ought not to have eaten  those purple berries so soon."

"P'r'aps we did make a mistake," Cap'n Bill acknowledged.

"Or we might have brought some of those lavender berries with us,  instead of so many purple ones," suggested Trot regretfully.

Cap'n Bill made no reply to this statement, which showed he did not  fully agree with the little girl; but he fell into deep thought, with  wrinkled brows, and finally he said:

"If those purple berries would make anything grow bigger, whether it'd  eaten the lavender ones or not, I could find a way out of our troubles."

They did not understand this speech and looked at the old sailor as if  expecting him to explain what he meant. But just then a chorus of  shrill cries rose from outside.

"Here! Let me go--let me go!" the voices seemed to say. "Why are we  insulted in this way? Mountain Ear, come and help us!"

Trot ran to the window and looked out.

"It's the birds you caught, Cap'n," she said. "I didn't know they could  talk."

"Oh, yes; all the birds in Mo are educated to talk," said the Bumpy  Man. Then he looked at Cap'n Bill uneasily and added: "Won't you let  the poor things go?"

"I'll see," replied the sailor, and walked out to where the birds were  fluttering and complaining because the strings would not allow them to  fly away.

"Listen to me!" he cried, and at once they became still. "We three  people who are strangers in your land want to go to some other country,  and we want three of you birds to carry us there. We know we are asking  a great favor, but it's the only way we can think of--excep' walkin',  an' I'm not much good at that because I've a wooden leg. Besides, Trot  an' Button-Bright are too small to undertake a long and tiresome  journey. Now, tell me: Which three of you birds will consent to carry  us?"

The birds looked at one another as if greatly astonished. Then one of  them replied: "You must be crazy, old man. Not one of us is big enough  to fly with even the smallest of your party."

"I'll fix the matter of size," promised Cap'n Bill. "If three of you  will agree to carry us, I'll make you big an' strong enough to do it,  so it won't worry you a bit."

The birds considered this gravely.  Living in a magic country, they had  no doubt but that the strange one-legged man could do what he said.  After a little, one of them asked:

"If you make us big, would we stay big always?"

"I think so," replied Cap'n Bill.

They chattered a while among themselves and then the bird that had  first spoken said: "I'll go, for one."

"So will I," said another; and after a pause a third said: "I'll go,  too."

Perhaps more would have volunteered, for it seemed that for some reason  they all longed to be bigger than they were; but three were enough for  Cap'n Bill's purpose and so he promptly released all the others, who  immediately flew away.

The three that remained were cousins, and all were of the same  brilliant plumage and in size about as large as eagles. When Trot  questioned them she found they were quite young, having only abandoned  their nests a few weeks before. They were strong young birds, with  clear, brave eyes, and the little girl decided they were the most  beautiful of all the feathered creatures she had ever seen.

Cap'n Bill now took from his pocket the wooden box with the sliding  cover and removed the three purple berries, which were still in good  condition.

"Eat these," he said, and gave one to each of the birds. They obeyed,  finding the fruit very pleasant to taste. In a few seconds they began  to grow in size and grew so fast that Trot feared they would never  stop. But they finally did stop growing, and then they were much larger  than the Ork, and nearly the size of full-grown ostriches.

Cap'n Bill was much pleased by this result.

"You can carry us now, all right," said he.

The birds strutted around with pride, highly pleased with their immense  size.

"I don't see, though," said Trot doubtfully, "how we're going to ride  on their backs without falling off."

"We're not going to ride on their backs," answered Cap'n Bill. "I'm  going to make swings for us to ride in."

He then asked the Bumpy Man for some rope, but the man had no rope. He  had, however, an old suit of gray clothes which he gladly presented to  Cap'n Bill, who cut the cloth into strips and twisted it so that it was  almost as strong as rope. With this material he attached to each bird a  swing that dangled below its feet, and Button-Bright made a trial  flight in one of them to prove that it was safe and comfortable. When  all this had been arranged one of the birds asked:

"Where do you wish us to take you?"

"Why, just follow the Ork," said Cap'n Bill. "He will be our leader,  and wherever the Ork flies you are to fly, and wherever the Ork lands  you are to land. Is that satisfactory?"

The birds declared it was quite satisfactory, so Cap'n Bill took  counsel with the Ork.

"On our way here," said that peculiar creature, "I noticed a broad,  sandy desert at the left of me, on which was no living thing."

"Then we'd better keep away from it," replied the sailor.

"Not so," insisted the Ork. "I have found, on my travels, that the most  pleasant countries often lie in the midst of deserts; so I think it  would be wise for us to fly over this desert and discover what lies  beyond it. For in the direction we came from lies the ocean, as we well  know, and beyond here is this strange Land of Mo, which we do not care  to explore. On one side, as we can see from this mountain, is a broad  expanse of plain, and on the other the desert.  For my part, I vote for  the desert."

"What do you say, Trot?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"It's all the same to me," she replied.

No one thought of asking Button-Bright's opinion, so it was decided to  fly over the desert. They bade good-bye to the Bumpy Man and thanked  him for his kindness and hospitality. Then they seated themselves in  the swings--one for each bird--and told the Ork to start away and they  would follow.

The whirl of the Ork's tail astonished the birds at first, but after he  had gone a short distance they rose in the air, carrying their  passengers easily, and flew with strong, regular strokes of their great  wings in the wake of their leader.
