CAP'N JOE AND CAP'N BILL (Fantasy:- Ages 5 to 10)



  The rooms Zog had given his prisoners were as handsome as all other  parts of this strange enchanted castle. Gold was used plentifully in  the decorations, and in the Rose Chamber occupied by the mermaids  and Trot golden roses formed a border around the entire room. The  sea maidens had evidently been expected, for the magician had  provided couches for them to recline upon similar to the ones used  in the mermaid palaces. The frames were of mother of pearl and the  cushions of soft, white sponges. In the room were toilet tables,  mirrors, ornaments and many articles used by earth people, which  they afterward learned had been plundered by Zog from sunken ships  and brought to his castle by his allies, the sea devils.

While the mermaids were examining and admiring their room, Cap'n  Bill went to the Peony Room to see what it was like and found his  quarters were very cozy and interesting. There were pictures on the  wall, portraits of grave-looking porpoises, bashful seals, and smug  and smiling walruses. Some of the wall panels were formed of mirrors  and reflected clearly the interior of the room. Around the ceiling  was a frieze of imitation peonies in silver, and the furniture was  peony-shaped, the broad leaves being bent to form seats and couches.  Beside a pretty dressing table hung a bell cord with a tassel at the  end. Cap'n Bill did not know it was a bell cord, so he pulled it to  see what would happen and was puzzled to find that nothing seemed to  happen at all, the bell being too far away for him to hear it. Then  he began looking at the treasures contained in this royal apartment,  and was much pleased with a golden statue of a mermaid that  resembled Princess Clia in feature. A silver flower vase upon a  stand contained a bouquet of gorgeous peonies, "as nat'ral as life,"  said Cap'n Bill, although he saw plainly that they must be made of  metal.

Trot came in just then to see how her dear friend was located. She  entered from the doorway that connected the two rooms and said,  "Isn't it pretty, Cap'n? And who'd ever think that awful creature  Zog owned such a splendid castle and kept his prisoners in such  lovely rooms?"

"I once heard tell," said the sailor, "of a foreign people that  sacrificed humans to please their pagan gods, an' before they killed  'em outright they stuffed the victims full of good things to eat an'  dressed 'em in pretty clothes an' treated 'em like princes. That's  why I don't take much comfort in our fine surroundin's, Trot. This  Zog is a pagan, if ever there was one, an' he don't mean us any  good, you may depend on 't."

"No," replied Trot soberly, "I'm sure he does not expect us to be  happy here. But I'm going to fool him and have just as good a time  as I can." As she spoke they both turned around--an easy thing to do  with a single flop of their flexible tails--and Cap'n Bill uttered a  cry of surprise. Just across the room stood a perfect duplicate of  himself. The round head, with its bald top and scraggly whiskers,  the sailor cap and shirt, the wide pantaloons, even the wooden leg,  each and every one were exact copies of those owned by Cap'n Bill.  Even the expression in the light-blue eyes was the same, and it is  no wonder the old sailor stared at his "double" in amazement. But  the next minute he laughed and said, "Why, Trot, it's ME reflected  in a mirror. But at first I thought it was someone else."

Trot was staring, too. "Look, Cap'n!" she whispered. "Look at the  wooden leg."

"Well, it's MY wooden leg, ain't it?" he inquired.

"If it is, it can't be a reflection in a mirror," she argued, "for  YOU haven't got a wooden leg. You've got a fish's tail."

The old sailor was so startled by this truth that he gave a great  flop with his tail that upset his balance and made him keel a  somersault in the water before he got right side up again. Then he  found the other sailor man laughing at him and was horrified to find  the "reflection" advancing toward them by stumping along on its  wooden leg. "Keep away! Get out, there!" yelled Cap'n Bill. "You're  a ghost, the ghost o' me that once was, an' I can't bear the sight  o' you. Git out!"

"Did you ring jes' to tell me to git out?" asked the other in a mild  voice.

"I--I didn't ring," declared Cap'n Bill.

"You did. You pulled that bell cord," said the one-legged (one or  more lines missing here in this edition)

"Oh, did pullin' that thing ring a bell?" inquired the Cap'n, a  little ashamed of his ignorance and reassured by hearing the "ghost"  talk.

"It surely did," was the reply, "and Sacho told me to answer your  bell and look after you. So I'm a-lookin' after you."

"I wish you wouldn't," protested Cap'n Bill. "I've no use fer--fer  ghostses, anyhow."

The strange sailor began to chuckle at hearing this, and his chuckle  was just like Cap'n Bill's chuckle, so full of merry humor that it  usually made everyone laugh with him.

"Who are you?" asked Trot, who was very curious and much surprised.

"I'm Cap'n Joe," was the reply. "Cap'n Joe Weedles, formerly o' the  brig 'Gladsome' an' now a slave o' Zog at the bottom o' the sea."

"J--J--Joe Wee-Weedles!" gasped Cap'n Bill, amazed. "Joe Weedles o'  the 'Gladsome'! Why, dash my eyes, mate, you must be my brother!"

"Are YOU Bill Weedles?" asked the other. And then he added, "But no,  you can't be. Bill wasn't no mermaid. He were a human critter like  myself."

"That's what I am," said Cap'n Bill hastily. "I'm a human critter,  too. I've jes' borrered this fish tail to swim with while I'm  visitin' the mermaids."

"Well, well," said Cap'n Joe in astonishment. "Who'd o' thought it!  An' who'd ever o' thought as I'd find my long-lost brother in Zog's  enchanted castle full fifty fathoms deep down in the wet, wet  water!"

"Why, as fer that," replied Cap'n Bill, "it's YOU as is the  long-lost brother, not me. You an' your ship disappeared many a year  ago, an' ain't never been heard of since, while, as you see, I'm  livin' on earth yet."

"You don't look it to all appearances," remarked Cap'n Joe in a  reflective tone of voice. "But I'll agree it's many a year since I  saw the top o' the water, an' I'm not expectin' to ever tramp on dry  land again."

"Are you dead, or drownded, or what?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"Neither one nor t'other," was the answer. "But Zog gave me gills  so's I could live in the water like fishes do, an' if I got on land  I couldn't breathe air any more'n a fish out o' water can. So I  guess as long as I live, I'll hev to stay down here."

"Do you like it?" asked Trot.

"Oh, I don't objec' much," said Cap'n Joe. "There ain't much  excitement here, fer we don't catch a flock o' mermaids ev'ry day,  but the work is easy an' the rations fair. I might o' been worse  off, you know, for when my brig was wrecked, I'd 'a' gone to Davy  Jones's Locker if Zog hadn't happened to find me an' made me a  fish."

"You don't look as much like a fish as Cap'n Bill does," observed  Trot.

"P'raps not," said Cap'n Joe, "but I notice Bill ain't got any gills  an' breathes like you an' the mermaids does. When he gets back to  land, he'll have his two legs again an' live in comfort breathin'  air."

"I won't have two legs," asserted Cap'n Bill, "for when I'm on earth  I'm fitted with one wooden leg, jes' the same as you are, Joe."

"Oh, I hadn't heard o' that, Bill, but I'm not surprised," replied  Brother Joe. "Many a sailor gets to wear a wooden leg in time.  Mine's hick'ry."

"So's mine," said Cap'n Bill with a air of pride. "I'm glad I've run  across you, Joe, for I often wondered what had become of you. Seems  too bad, though, to have to spend all your life under water."

"What's the odds?" asked Cap'n Joe. "I never could keep away from  the water since I was a boy, an' there's more dangers to be met  floatin' on it than there is soakin' in it. An' one other thing  pleases me when I think on it: I'm parted from my wife, a mighty  good woman with a tongue like a two-edge sword, an' my pore  widder'll get the insurance money an' live happy. As fer me, Bill,  I'm a good deal happier than I was when she kep' scoldin' me from  mornin' to night every minute I was home."

"Is Zog a kind master?" asked Trot.

"I can't say he's kind," replied Cap'n Joe, "for he's as near a  devil as any livin' critter CAN be. He grumbles an' growls in his  soft voice all day, an' hates himself an' everybody else. But I  don't see much of him. There's so many of us slaves here that Zog  don't pay much attention to us, an' we have a pretty good time when  the ol' magician is shut up in his den, as he mostly is."

"Could you help us to escape?" asked the child.

"Why, I don't know how," admitted Cap'n Joe. "There's magic all  around us, and we slaves are never allowed to leave this great cave.  I'll do what I can, o' course, but Sacho is the boy to help you if  anyone can. That little chap knows a heap, I can tell you. So now,  if nothin' more's wanted, I must get back to work."

"What work do you do?" Cap'n Bill asked.

"I sew buttons on Zog's clothes. Every time he gets mad, he busts  his buttons off, an' I have to sew 'em on again. As he's mad most o'  the time, it keeps me busy."

"I'll see you again, won't I, Joe?" said Cap'n Bill.

"No reason why you shouldn't, if you manage to keep alive," said  Cap'n Joe. "But you mustn't forget, Bill, this Zog has his grip on  you, an' I've never known anything to escape him yet."

Saying this, the old sailor began to stump toward the door, but  tripped his foot against his wooden leg and gave a swift dive  forward. He would have fallen flat had he not grabbed the drapery at  the doorway and saved himself by holding fast to it with both hands.  Even then he rolled and twisted so awkwardly before he could get  upon his legs that Trot had to laugh outright at his antics. "This  hick'ry leg," said Cap'n Joe, "is so blamed light that it always  wants to float. Agga-Groo, the goldworker, has promised me a gold  leg that will stay down, but he never has time to make it. You're  mighty lucky, Bill, to have a merman's tail instead o' legs."

"I guess I am, Joe," replied Cap'n Bill, "for in such a wet country  the fishes have the best of it. But I ain't sure I'd like this sort  o' thing always."

"Think o' the money you'd make in a side show," said Cap'n Joe with  his funny chuckling laugh. Then he pounded his wooden leg against  the hard floor and managed to hobble from the room without more  accidents.

When he had gone, Trot said, "Aren't you glad to find your brother  again, Cap'n Bill?"

"Why, so-so," replied the sailor. "I don't know much about Joe,  seein' as we haven't met before for many a long year, an' all I  remember about our boyhood days is that we fit an' pulled hair most  o' the time. But what worries me most is Joe's lookin' so much like  me myself, wooden leg an' all. Don't you think it's rather cheeky  an' unbrotherly, Trot?"

"Perhaps he can't help it," suggested the child. "And anyhow, he'll  never be able to live on land again."

"No," said Cap'n Bill with a sigh. "Joe's a fish, now, an' so he  ain't likely to be took for me by one of our friends on the earth."
