CARRYING A MESSAGE (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  After Paddy Muskrat and his wife talked to her about sunstrokes, the  Muley Cow tried to keep in the shade during the rest of the day.

Toward evening, who should come trotting out of the woods but Tommy Fox.  When he noticed the Muley Cow (as he soon did, for the wind told him  where she was) he turned aside to speak to her. He inquired carefully  about her health, said that he hoped she was enjoying the fine weather,  and remarked finally that he was glad he met her because it would save  him a trip to the farmyard. "That is," Tommy added, "if you don't mind  carrying a message for me."

The Muley Cow had always heard that the Fox family was terribly sly and  tricky. Still, Tommy was most polite. Really, she didn't like to say no.

He saw that she couldn't quite say yes. "It doesn't matter," he told her  carelessly. "There's the little red cow over there. I know she'll be  glad to oblige me."

That was just the thing to make the Muley Cow want to do his errand.

"I'm sure I should be delighted to accommodate you," she told Tommy Fox.  "Give me your message. And when I go home this evening I'll deliver it."

"It's for the young gobbler, Turkey Proudfoot," Tommy Fox explained.  "Please tell him that a gentleman wishes to meet him by the stone wall  to-night, as soon as it grows dark."

"Very well!" said the Muley Cow. "I'll tell Turkey Proudfoot that I saw  you and I'll give him your message."

"Oh! Please don't mention my name!" Tommy Fox begged her. "Just say, 'a  gentleman.' You see, it's to be a surprise.... You know everybody likes  surprises," he added, as he grinned at the Muley Cow in the most  innocent way.

She remembered that she had liked surprises herself when she was  younger. So she agreed to give Turkey Proudfoot the message exactly as  Tommy Fox had told it to her.

And she did. When milking time came, and Johnnie Green and old dog Spot  drove the cows home, down the long lane that led to the barn, and the  Muley Cow saw Turkey Proudfoot strutting about the farmyard, she told  him something. She told him that a slim, red gentleman with a bushy  tail and a sharp nose wanted to see him near the stone wall at  nightfall. "He has a surprise for you," she added.

The moment he heard the message Turkey Proudfoot's tail drooped and he  forgot to strut. He even shook slightly, as if something had frightened  him. And then, to the Muley Cow's astonishment, he began to gobble at  her.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself--trying to get me into trouble with  Tommy Fox!" he scolded.

The Muley Cow was still more amazed. She hadn't mentioned Tommy Fox's  name; and she couldn't understand how Turkey Proudfoot had guessed who  the gentleman was. Besides, she wondered why Turkey Proudfoot was angry.  Tommy Fox was such an agreeable person that she felt sure he must have  planned a very pleasant surprise.

It appeared that Turkey Proudfoot had quite a different notion. It was  so different that he didn't even dare to roost in the tree in front of  the barn that night, but crowded right into the henhouse. The hens made  a great fuss and ordered him out. But he simply wouldn't take the hint.
