Catching Freddie Weasel Asleep (Fable:- Ages 5 to 10)

  When Frisky Squirrel saw Freddie Weasel disappear in the hole in the  bank he became greatly excited. He forgot all about going home. And  though he had begun to feel somewhat sleepy, he was wide awake again  in no time. He sat right down, a little way from the hole, and he  never once took his eyes off it.

Frisky hoped that perhaps he would hear Freddie snoring in there, if  he waited long enough. But no such thing happened. There seemed to be  but one way to discover whether Freddie was asleep, and _that_ was to  creep into the hole himself and find out.

Now, Frisky Squirrel was no coward, as you know. But he did not like  the idea of crawling into that narrow, dark place. He knew that  Freddie Weasel's teeth were very sharp. And he knew that Freddie was  quick to use them, too.

Frisky was trying hard to think of some good way to catch Freddie  asleep, when who should come strolling along but Henry Skunk! Frisky  always supposed that he was called "Henry" because he was so fond of  _hens_--for he visited Farmer Green's hen-house oftener than any other  of the forest-people--but whether _that_ was why he was so named I  should really not want to say.

"Well, well! You're out pretty late," Henry Skunk called, as soon as  he saw Frisky.

Frisky Squirrel held a paw to his mouth, so Henry Skunk would not talk  too loudly.

"What's going on?" Henry Skunk asked, with growing interest. "You  haven't seen a hen around here, have you?"

Frisky shook his head.

"It's Freddie Weasel--" he explained, pointing at the hole. "He's in  there; and I'm trying to catch him asleep."

Henry Skunk came nearer.

"Why don't you go inside?" he asked.

Frisky shook his head again.

"I don't see very well in the dark," he said, "and I'd rather not."

Henry nodded.

"I can see first rate at night," he told Frisky. "I'll find out for  you if Freddie Weasel is asleep. And if he is, I'll come right back  and tell you, and then you can go in with me and see for yourself."

"Good!" said Frisky. "That's very kind of you, I'm sure."

So Henry Skunk walked up to the hole. It was entirely too small for  him to enter.

"I'll have to make it bigger," he remarked.

"Won't Freddie hear you?" Frisky Squirrel inquired.

"I'll be very quiet about it," Henry Skunk replied. "So if he's asleep  I hardly think I'll disturb him." And at that Henry set to work.

Now, in order to dig, he had to stick his head into the hole. But he  knew he could see Freddie Weasel if Freddie tried to bite his nose; so  Henry was not afraid. How he did make the dirt fly! Frisky wished that  he could dig like that. He thought it must be great fun. And he  watched Henry so closely that he never saw that slim, sneaking form  that crept up behind him. And when Frisky felt something jump right on  top of him, and when a terrible, sharp pain seized his shoulder, he  was scared half out of his wits.

It was Freddie Weasel! He had left his home through another hole,  which Frisky knew nothing about.

Frisky Squirrel called for help. He shouted Henry Skunk's name again  and again, as he rolled over and over on the ground, trying to shake  Freddie off his back.

But how could Henry Skunk hear him, with his head buried inside the  hole? _He_ didn't know what was happening. And if Frisky and Freddie  hadn't rolled right upon him he probably would never have looked  around until it was too late.

But when Henry felt that rolling, tumbling, fighting pair bump against  him he drew his head out of the hole in a hurry. And as soon as he saw  what was happening he sunk his own sharp teeth deep into Freddie  Weasel's back.

Freddie let go of Frisky Squirrel at once. And he gave Henry Skunk's  nose such a savage nip that Henry just had to squeal--it hurt him so.  In order to squeal, of course he had to open his mouth. And when he  opened his mouth he had to let go of Freddie Weasel.

That was exactly what Freddie Weasel wanted. He sprang up and dashed  into the bushes. He was not afraid of Frisky Squirrel. But Henry Skunk  was altogether too big. Freddie did not enjoy fighting _him_.

Well! Frisky, with his aching shoulder, and Henry Skunk, with his sore  nose, went off together. They didn't say a word to each other, until  they reached the hickory tree where Frisky lived. And then all they  said was "Good-night!"

Frisky never spied on anybody again. He had learned that it is better  not to meddle in other people's private affairs. So, after all,  perhaps it was a good thing that he tried, just once, to catch Freddie  Weasel asleep.

  THE END
