CATCALLS (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  PERCHED on top of Rusty Wren's tin house, Miss Kitty Cat had been  enjoying herself thoroughly, while the birds made a great how-dy-do and  tried in vain to frighten her away.

When she heard all at once an unexpected _meaow_ she showed that it  startled her.

"A cat!" cried Miss Kitty. "I didn't suppose there was another cat for  miles around." She looked about on all sides, on the ground and in the  tree-tops. And there was no cat anywhere in sight.

Meanwhile the birds were all exclaiming, "There! He's here. Now Miss  Kitty Cat had better watch out."

Again a strange, mocking catcall sounded from somewhere. There was a  sort of jeer about it that aroused Miss Kitty Cat's anger.

"He's come, has he?" she exclaimed to little Mr. Chippy, who chattered  at her from a good, safe distance. "If he's looking for a fight I'd be  pleased to have him come and get it."

Whoever the stranger was, and wherever he was, he knew how to tease Miss  Kitty Cat. Now he howled at her from the thicket of lilac bushes on the  edge of the flower garden. Now he mewed at her from the hedge in front  of the farmhouse. And though Miss Kitty Cat tried to get a glimpse of  him, she couldn't see anything that even faintly resembled a cat.

The annoying cries moved from one place to another. She was sure of  that. But the one that made them managed to stay hidden.

"This is queer!" Miss Kitty Cat said to herself. "Can it be that there's  a cat's voice around here, and nothing more? A cat without a voice  wouldn't be so strange. But a voice without a cat--that's the oddest  thing I ever heard of!"

At last Rusty Wren seemed to take heart. And his wife, inside their  house, abused Miss Kitty Cat loudly--or as loudly as she could from  inside the tin syrup can.

"I always knew you were a coward," she told Miss Kitty. "You're always  ready to attack us small people. But you don't dare fight anybody of  your own size."

"How can I fight a person that I can't see?" Miss Kitty asked. "If this  noisy stranger would come out in the open I'd soon show you whether I'd  fight him or not. I'd teach him--if I could get hold of him--not to come  here and interfere when I'm making a neighborly call."

"Nonsense!" cried Mrs. Wren. "You don't mean half you say. If you  weren't a fraud you'd go and find this person that's jeering at you."

_"Meaow-ow-ow!"_ Again that mocking call grated on Miss Kitty's ears.

"There!" Mrs. Wren exclaimed. "There it is again. It would make me  pretty angry to be talked to like that. But I don't suppose it bothers  you. Probably you're used to having people caterwaul at you."

That was a little more than Miss Kitty Cat could stand. She scrambled  down from the old cherry tree and ran across the yard to the row of  currant bushes, whence the last catcalls had come.

As she drew near, a slim slate-colored bird gave a harsh laugh as he  flew up from the bushes. It was Mr. Catbird. And Miss Kitty Cat felt  sheepish enough when she saw him. She knew that he had succeeded in  fooling her with his mocking cries.

The birds--with Mr. Catbird among them, and Mrs. Wren, too--all gathered  round Miss Kitty and made such a clamor that she crept away and hid in  the haymow. She never could endure much noise, unless she made most of  it herself--by the light Of the moon.
