Catherine and Her Destiny (Fiction:- Ages 3 to 5)



Sicilianische Mahrchen von Laura Gonzenbach. Leipzig, Engelmann, 1870.

Long ago there lived a rich merchant who, besides possessing moretreasures than any king in the world, had in his great hall threechairs, one of silver, one of gold, and one of diamonds. But hisgreatest treasure of all was his only daughter, who was calledCatherine.

One day Catherine was sitting in her own room when suddenly the doorflew open, and in came a tall and beautiful woman holding in her hands alittle wheel.

'Catherine,' she said, going up to the girl, 'which would you ratherhave-a happy youth or a happy old age?'

Catherine was so taken by surprise that she did not know what to answer,and the lady repeated again, 'Which would you rather have-a happy youthor a happy old age?'

Then Catherine thought to herself, 'If I say a happy youth, then I shallhave to suffer all the rest of my life. No, I would bear trouble now,and have something better to look forward to.' So she looked up andreplied, 'Give me a happy old age.'

'So be it,' said the lady, and turned her wheel as she spoke, vanishingthe next moment as suddenly as she had come.

Now this beautiful lady was the Destiny of poor Catherine.

Only a few days after this the merchant heard the news that all hisfinest ships, laden with the richest merchandise, had been sunk in astorm, and he was left a beggar. The shock was too much for him. He tookto his bed, and in a short time he was dead of his disappointment.

So poor Catherine was left alone in the world without a penny or acreature to help her. But she was a brave girl and full of spirit, andsoon made up her mind that the best thing she could do was to go to thenearest town and become a servant. She lost no time in getting herselfready, and did not take long over her journey; and as she was passingdown the chief street of the town a noble lady saw her out of thewindow, and, struck by her sad face, said to her: 'Where are you goingall alone, my pretty girl?'

'Ah, my lady, I am very poor, and must go to service to earn my bread.'

'I will take you into my service,' said she; and Catherine served herwell.

Some time after her mistress said to Catherine, 'I am obliged to go outfor a long while, and must lock the house door, so that no thieves shallget in.'

So she went away, and Catherine took her work and sat down at thewindow. Suddenly the door burst open, and in came her Destiny.

'Oh! so here you are, Catherine! Did you really think I was going toleave you in peace?' And as she spoke she walked to the linen presswhere Catherine's mistress kept all her finest sheets and underclothes,tore everything in pieces, and flung them on the floor. Poor Catherinewrung her hands and wept, for she thought to herself, 'When my ladycomes back and sees all this ruin she will think it is my fault,' andstarting up, she fled through the open door. Then Destiny took all thepieces and made them whole again, and put them back in the press, andwhen everything was tidy she too left the house.

When the mistress reached home she called Catherine, but no Catherinewas there. 'Can she have robbed me?' thought the old lady, and lookedhastily round the house; but nothing was missing. She wondered whyCatherine should have disappeared like this, but she heard no more ofher, and in a few days she filled her place.

Meanwhile Catherine wandered on and on, without knowing very well whereshe was going, till at last she came to another town. Just as before,a noble lady happened to see her passing her window, and called out toher, 'Where are you going all alone, my pretty girl?'

And Catherine answered, 'Ah, my lady, I am very poor, and must go toservice to earn my bread.'

'I will take you into my service,' said the lady; and Catherine servedher well, and hoped she might now be left in peace. But, exactly asbefore, one day that Catherine was left in the house alone her Destinycame again and spoke to her with hard words: 'What! are you here now?'And in a passion she tore up everything she saw, till in sheer miserypoor Catherine rushed out of the house. And so it befell for sevenyears, and directly Catherine found a fresh place her Destiny came andforced her to leave it.

After seven years, however, Destiny seemed to get tired of persecutingher, and a time of peace set in for Catherine. When she had been chasedaway from her last house by Destiny's wicked pranks she had takenservice with another lady, who told her that it would be part of herdaily work to walk to a mountain that overshadowed the town, and,climbing up to the top, she was to lay on the ground some loavesof freshly baked bread, and cry with a loud voice, 'O Destiny, mymistress,' three times. Then her lady's Destiny would come and take awaythe offering. 'That will I gladly do,' said Catherine.

So the years went by, and Catherine was still there, and every dayshe climbed the mountain with her basket of bread on her arm. She washappier than she had been, but sometimes, when no one saw her, she wouldweep as she thought over her old life, and how different it was to theone she was now leading. One day her lady saw her, and said, 'Catherine,what is it? Why are you always weeping?' And then Catherine told herstory.

'I have got an idea,' exclaimed the lady. 'To-morrow, when you take thebread to the mountain, you shall pray my Destiny to speak to yours, andentreat her to leave you in peace. Perhaps something may come of it!'

At these words Catherine dried her eyes, and next morning, when sheclimbed the mountain, she told all she had suffered, and cried, 'ODestiny, my mistress, pray, I entreat you, of my Destiny that she mayleave me in peace.'

And Destiny answered, 'Oh, my poor girl, know you not your Destiny liesburied under seven coverlids, and can hear nothing? But if you will cometo-morrow I will bring her with me.'

And after Catherine had gone her way her lady's Destiny went to findher sister, and said to her, 'Dear sister, has not Catherine sufferedenough? It is surely time for her good days to begin?'

And the sister answered, 'To-morrow you shall bring her to me, and Iwill give her something that may help her out of her need.'

The next morning Catherine set out earlier than usual for the mountain,and her lady's Destiny took the girl by the hand and led her to hersister, who lay under the seven coverlids. And her Destiny held outto Catherine a ball of silk, saying, 'Keep this--it may be useful someday;' then pulled the coverings over her head again.

But Catherine walked sadly down the hill, and went straight to her ladyand showed her the silken ball, which was the end of all her high hopes.

'What shall I do with it?' she asked. 'It is not worth sixpence, and itis no good to me!'

'Take care of it,' replied her mistress. 'Who can tell how useful it maybe?'

A little while after this grand preparations were made for the king'smarriage, and all the tailors in the town were busy embroidering fineclothes. The wedding garment was so beautiful nothing like it had everbeen seen before, but when it was almost finished the tailor found thathe had no more silk. The colour was very rare, and none could be foundlike it, and the king made a proclamation that if anyone happened topossess any they should bring it to the court, and he would give them alarge sum.

'Catherine!' exclaimed the lady, who had been to the tailors and seenthe wedding garment, 'your ball of silk is exactly the right colour.Bring it to the king, and you can ask what you like for it.'

Then Catherine put on her best clothes and went to the court, and lookedmore beautiful than any woman there.

'May it please your majesty,' she said, 'I have brought you a ball ofsilk of the colour you asked for, as no one else has any in the town.'

'Your majesty,' asked one of the courtiers, 'shall I give the maiden itsweight in gold?'

The king agreed, and a pair of scales were brought; and a handful ofgold was placed in one scale and the silken ball in the other. But lo!let the king lay in the scales as many gold pieces as he would, the silkwas always heavier still. Then the king took some larger scales, andheaped up all his treasures on one side, but the silk on the otheroutweighed them all. At last there was only one thing left that had notbeen put in, and that was his golden crown. And he took it from his headand set it on top of all, and at last the scale moved and the ball hadfounds its balance.

'Where got you this silk?' asked the king.

'It was given me, royal majesty, by my mistress,' replied Catherine.

'That is not true,' said the king, 'and if you do not tell me the truthI will have your head cut off this instant.'

So Catherine told him the whole story, and how she had once been as richas he.

Now there lived at the court a wise woman, and she said to Catherine,'You have suffered much, my poor girl, but at length your luck hasturned, and I know by the weighing of the scales through the crown thatyou will die a queen.'

'So she shall,' cried the king, who overheard these words; 'she shalldie my queen, for she is more beautiful than all the ladies of thecourt, and I will marry no one else.'

And so it fell out. The king sent back the bride he had promised to wedto her own country, and the same Catherine was queen at the marriagefeast instead, and lived happy and contented to the end of her life.
