CAUGHT NAPPING (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  It was several days before Mr. Crow stopped sulking. He was very angry  with Farmer Green for placing the giant in the cornfield. And he told his  friends that he had about made up his mind he would move to some other  neighborhood.

"Farmer Green will be sorry after I'm gone," he remarked. "He'll miss me  when he finds that his crops are being eaten by mildreds of insects."  Whether he meant _millions_ or _hundreds_ it would be hard to say. You  see, Mr. Crow was not good at arithmetic. He always had trouble counting  higher than ten.

And then, the very day before he had planned to move, Mr. Crow noticed  something that made him change his mind. He was sitting in the top of a  tall pine, looking mournfully across the cornfield, where he dared not  go, when he saw a small bird drop down upon the giant's head and  disappear.

"He's eaten her!" Mr. Crow exclaimed. But as he stared, the little bird  appeared again and flew away.

Old Mr. Crow knew it was a mother wren; and he was not long in  discovering that she had built a nest under the tin pan that the giant  wore in place of a hat!

That was enough for Mr. Crow. The secret was out! The thing he had feared  was nothing worse than a straw scarecrow, with a stick stuck over its  shoulder to look like a gun.

The old gentleman felt quite foolish for a time. But he did not let that  fact prevent his scratching up enough corn to make up for the meals he  had lost.

After that he quickly recovered his spirits. And he forgot all about  moving.

But if Mr. Crow felt merry, you may be sure that Farmer Green did not.  It was his turn to feel foolish. And he vowed that he would get even with  Mr. Crow, if it took him all summer.

Meanwhile, Mr. Crow grew careless. He really thought that Farmer Green  wouldn't be able to think of any other way of keeping him out of the  cornfield. And he spent so much of his time there that he grew quite fat.  He became somewhat short-breathed, too. And his voice grew wheezier than  ever. But Mr. Crow did not mind those things. He was getting all the corn  he could eat. And he was happy.

Then there came a morning at last, as he soared down upon the cornfield,  when he noticed that the huge scarecrow was gone. There was another--a  shorter--figure in its place. But to careless Mr. Crow's glance it  seemed no different from the scarecrows he had known all his life. He  paid little or no attention to the image. It wore the big pan upon its  head--he observed that much. And it made him laugh.

Then Mr. Crow began to scratch for his breakfast. But he had not eaten a  single kernel when a terrible roar broke the early morning stillness. And  there was a sound as of hail falling all around him.

Mr. Crow knew right away what had happened. The scarecrow had come to  life and tried to shoot him! And if ever a bird hurried away from that  field, it was old Mr. Crow.

It was almost night before he remembered that he had had nothing to eat  all day. And so anybody can see how frightened he was....

Farmer Green walked home to his own breakfast with his gun resting upon  his shoulder.

"I didn't get him," he told Johnnie. "But I must have scared him out of a  year's growth."
