CHIRPY CRICKET'S ADVICE (Fable Ages 3 to 5)

  If the summers in Pleasant Valley had been longer perhaps the  honey-makers in Buster Bumblebee's home would have taken a holiday now  and then. But they knew that every day that passed brought cold weather  that much the nearer. So they never once stopped working--except to sleep  at night. And, like Farmer Green himself, they felt that they must not  waste any of the precious daylight by lying abed late in the morning.  They wanted to be up and in the clover field as soon as it was light.

Now, with Rusty Wren living right beneath his bedroom window to wake him  at dawn, Farmer Green had no trouble in getting up in good season. But  the Bumblebee family were in no such luck. Even if Rusty Wren had lived  near them in the meadow they could scarcely have heard his dawn song,  because their home was beneath the surface of the ground, in the old  house that had once belonged to Mrs. Field Mouse.

If they could have found an alarm clock somewhere it would have been easy  for them to rise as early in the morning as they wished. But lacking a  clock of that kind--or any other--they had to find a different way of  waking themselves.

That was why the workers chose one of their number to be a trumpeter. And  it was her duty to get up bright and early, at three or four o'clock, and  trumpet loudly to rouse all the other workers.

How the trumpeter herself managed to awake is something that never  bothered anybody else. It was her business not to oversleep. And she knew  that it would be very unpleasant for her if she failed even once to do  her duty.

Now, it was all well enough for the workers to have the morning silence  broken by the blare of trumpeting. They were eager to get up and begin  their day's work. But Buster Bumblebee did not like that arrangement in  the least. He preferred a good, long night's sleep. And since he never  did any work he thought it was a shame that he should be rudely awakened  in such a fashion.

At home, however, he did not mention his grievance to anyone. But he  talked the matter over with a number of his friends--outside the family.  And one and all agreed that something ought to be done to put a stop to  the trumpeter's noise.

"Why don't you have a pleasant talk with her?" Chirpy Cricket suggested.  "Perhaps she would be willing to trumpet a little more softly if she knew  that she was disturbing you."

That plan did not quite suit Buster Bumblebee.

"It would be hard to have a pleasant talk with the trumpeter," he said.  "She's quite likely to lose her temper. And she might sting me if she  became angry enough."

"Then you must first put her in a good humor," Chirpy Cricket told him  cheerfully. "Begin by saying what a good trumpeter she is and tell her  that her hat is _very_ becoming."

Still Buster Bumblebee was a bit doubtful of the outcome of the scheme.  But at last he agreed to give it a trial. "Though I must say I feel quite  nervous," he added. And all Chirpy Cricket's sprightly jokes failed to  make Buster smile.
