CIRCUS TRICKS (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Johnnie Green had been to the circus. And of course he wanted to try a  good many tricks that he had learned there. At first he made old dog  Spot perform for him. But when he attempted to get Spot to jump through  a hoop of fire the old dog refused flatly to play any more.

That was why Johnnie went to the pasture and brought Snowball Lamb back  to the farmyard.

"Now, Snowball," said Johnnie Green, "I've been to the circus and seen  ever so many kinds of trained animals--horses and elephants and dogs and  monkeys and seals. But I didn't see any trained lamb. If you pay  attention and learn what I try to teach you maybe you and I can join the  circus next year."

Snowball Lamb answered, "_Baa-a-a!_"

"All right!" cried Johnnie. "Now you just jump through this wooden  hoop!"

But it didn't prove to be as easy as all that. Johnnie Green had to work  a long, long time before he succeeded at last in teaching Snowball to  obey him. And then, after Snowball jumped through the hoop in as  graceful a manner as anybody could have asked for, Johnnie was not quite  satisfied.

"You'll have to learn to jump through a paper hoop if we're ever going  to be taken along with the circus," he told Snowball.

Again Snowball answered, "_Baa-a-a!_"

"All right!" said Johnnie. "I'll make some paper hoops. And to-morrow  we'll see what you can do."

So back to the pasture went Snowball. And into the woodshed went Johnnie  Green. There he stayed all the rest of the afternoon, knocking old  barrels apart, chopping and sawing and hammering. He laid newspapers  down upon the floor and trimmed them neatly with his mother's shears. He  made flour paste in the kitchen. And when milking time came he had four  fine hoops all covered with newspaper.

Johnnie wanted to make one more. But his father came along and happened  to pick up a barrel stave, remarking that it was just the thing to make  a boy jump to his work. So Johnnie decided, for some reason or other,  that four hoops would be enough to practice with. Of course when he and  Snowball joined the circus they would need dozens of hoops. But there  wasn't really any hurry about that.

So he went for a milk pail and trotted off to the barn, where he sat  down on his three-legged stool and began milking the Muley Cow.

He couldn't help thinking, as he sat there and sent streams of milk  tinkling down upon the bottom of the tin pail, what a fine scheme it  would be to build a hoop big enough for the Muley Cow to jump through.  It ought to be easy to teach her. For everybody knew that she was a  famous jumper. She made more trouble, jumping the fence, than all the  rest of Farmer Green's herd.

Johnnie Green got to thinking so intently about the matter that he began  to dawdle. And if there was one thing that the Muley Cow didn't like it  was to have to stand still while a slow milker puttered at his work. So  she suddenly gave her tail a switch and brought the end of it across  Johnnie Green's cheek.

It was a stinging smack. And Johnnie Green cried, "Ouch!"

After that he stopped his day-dreaming until milking was over. And then  he went back to the woodshed and gazed at the four paper hoops leaning  against the woodpile.
