COLD FEET (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  YES! Jasper Jay looked sulky when Jimmy Rabbit told him to stand in the  puddle of water, close beside the cedar tree.

"How long do you want me to stay here?" Jasper growled. "I can tell you  that it's not very pleasant to stand in a pool of water a great  while--on a cold day like this."

Now, all this happened quite late in the fall. And it was true that the  day was a cold one. In fact, the weather seemed to be growing colder  every minute.

"I won't ask you to wait any longer than is necessary," said Jimmy  Rabbit. "And if you want me to put Reddy Woodpecker where he can't eat  any nuts, and you don't have to _see_ him, you must follow my  directions.... When you're ill and go to Aunt Polly Woodchuck, the herb  doctor, you always take her advice, don't you?"

Jasper admitted that he did.

"Well, then, you must do just as I say. You know, it always makes you  ill to look at Reddy Woodpecker. And I'm going to cure you, if you'll  only give me a chance."

So Jasper Jay went and stood in the puddle. He screamed a good deal as  he stepped into the cold water.

"This is terrible!" he groaned. "Do hurry with your scheme, or I shall  have a chill."

"Remember! You're to keep absolutely still!" Jimmy Rabbit warned him.  "You mustn't move and you mustn't talk. If you should, my plan would be  spoiled; and then you would have to fight Reddy Woodpecker after all."

"I pr-pr-promise!" said Jasper Jay. His bill was chattering so fast that  he could hardly talk. And he was so cold that he looked uncommonly  blue--even for a blue jay.

So Jimmy Rabbit hopped away, feeling quite pleased with himself and his  plan. If Jasper Jay could have seen him stop, as soon as he was out of  sight, and roll over and over upon the ground and hold his shaking sides  he might have wondered what Jimmy was laughing at. Certainly Jasper Jay  could see no joke in standing still in a cold puddle on a frosty fall  day.

Well, after a time Jimmy Rabbit stopped rolling upon the ground and  hurried straight to the place where the beeches grew. And there--as he  had hoped to--he found Reddy Woodpecker, busily eating beechnuts.

"How are the nuts this fall?" Jimmy Rabbit asked.

"They couldn't be better!" said Reddy, stuffing his mouth as he spoke.

"They say there's a big crop this year," Jimmy Rabbit observed.

"Yes!" replied Reddy. "But it's none too big. In fact, there are too  many people in this neighborhood that come here for nuts. I hope," he  said, "that's not what you're looking for."

Jimmy Rabbit laughed.

"Certainly not!" he said. "I'm satisfied to leave the nuts for you and  Jasper Jay to eat. I want none of them."

"Jasper Jay!" screamed Reddy Woodpecker. "Don't mention that rowdy's  name to me, please! He's the greediest of all! And he's so vain--so  proud of that sky-blue suit of his--that I can't bear the sight of him.  I wish I could put him where he couldn't eat any more of these  beechnuts, and where I wouldn't have to look at him, either!"

Of course, that was not at all an agreeable remark for him to make.

But it seemed to please Jimmy Rabbit greatly.
