CRANBERRY SAUCE (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  "Ho, hum!" old Mr. Crow yawned. He had stopped to talk with Turkey  Proudfoot in the cornfield. It was fall; and the shocks of corn stood on  every hand like great fat scarecrows, with fat yellow pumpkins lying at  their feet, as if the scarecrows' heads had fallen off.

Mr. Crow always yawned a good deal when he chatted with Turkey Proudfoot  and he wasn't always as careful as he might have been about covering up  his yawns. Somehow Mr. Crow found Turkey Proudfoot dull company. Turkey  Proudfoot had never been off the farm. On the other hand, old Mr. Crow  was a great traveller. In his younger days he used to spend every winter  in the South. And though he felt that the long journey had become too  hard for him now, he thought nothing of flying around Blue Mountain and  up and down Pleasant Valley.

As a result of his wanderings Mr. Crow had learned many things. And as a  result of his staying at home, Turkey Proudfoot had learned little or  nothing. Often Turkey Proudfoot complained to Mr. Crow that he couldn't  even understand what Mr. Crow was talking about. But on this occasion  Mr. Crow mentioned something that made him shudder.

"Ho, hum!" Mr. Crow yawned again. "My appetite isn't what it used to be.  I believe I need to eat something tart. So I think I'll go over to the  cranberry bog and pick a few cranberries. Why don't you come along with  me?"

"Ugh!" Turkey Proudfoot exclaimed. "Cranberries! I can't stand even the  mention of them."

"Ha!" Mr. Crow murmured to himself. "I've waked him up at last. I  thought that would fetch him." And to Turkey Proudfoot he said, "Do you  mean to tell me that you don't like cranberries? Why, I've always heard  Turkey and cranberry sauce mentioned together."

"Ah!" said Turkey Proudfoot. "I've no doubt you've heard them spoken of  only too often. But that's no reason why I should be fond of cranberry  sauce. To tell the truth, all my life I've schemed to keep away from  it."

"Then you don't care for the sharp taste of cranberries," said Mr. Crow.

"I've never eaten any," Turkey Proudfoot told him. "I'm sure I couldn't  eat any if I wanted to. I believe the sight of them would take my  appetite away."

Old Mr. Crow shook his head. And he leaned over to pick up a stray  kernel of corn.

"Don't take that!" Turkey Proudfoot warned him. "I've had my eye on that  kernel. I was going to eat it as soon as you went away."

Old Mr. Crow bolted the kernel of corn in a twinkling.

"You forget that you're not in the farmyard," he said boldly. "You can't  treat me as if I were a Hen." And he chuckled--in a croaking sort of  fashion.

Turkey Proudfoot glared at him. He knew that it was useless to rush at  Mr. Crow. The old gentleman would only rise into the air and sail away  with a loud haw-haw.

Now, Mr. Crow was a famous tease. He dearly loved to annoy others. And  he gave Turkey Proudfoot a sly glance.

"Ouch!" he exclaimed. "I have a twinge of rheumatism."

"Where is your pain?" asked Turkey Proudfoot.

"In one of my drumsticks," said old Mr. Crow promptly, with a  spluttering cough, to keep from laughing.

Turkey Proudfoot was furious.

"Cranberry sauce and drumsticks!" he exclaimed. "You do choose the most  painful things to talk about."

"I was only trying to be polite," Mr. Crow told him. "You're always  complaining that I don't talk about matters you can understand."

"I understand these only too well--" Turkey Proudfoot said--"especially  at this season of the year!"
