CUFFY BEAR FINDS A PORCUPINE (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  For a few minutes Cuffy stood in the doorway and blinked and blinked. He  rubbed his eyes, for the bright sunlight hurt them. But soon he and  Silkie were frisking and tumbling about in the front-yard.

After a little while Cuffy remembered that there was an old tree over in  the pine woods--just the finest tree to climb that anybody could want.

"Let's go over to the old tree and play," Cuffy said.

"But Mother told us not to go far away," Silkie reminded him.

"Oh! I don't care," Cuffy said. "Besides, we'll be back before she  knows it."

But Silkie would not go with him. So naughty Cuffy started off alone for  the pine woods. He found the old tree. It seemed smaller than he  expected. The reason for that was because Cuffy himself had grown tall  during the months that he had spent in sleep.

He climbed the tree to the very top and as he looked down over the snow  he saw something moving a little way off. Whatever it was, it was much  smaller than Cuffy himself, so he was not afraid. And he scrambled down  to the ground and ran as fast as he could go to the place where he saw  the small thing moving. Cuffy wanted to see what it was. He was always  like that.

Cuffy found a little animal covered with stiff, sharp quills and he knew  that it was a porcupine. And all at once Cuffy felt very hungry. He  remembered that his father had sometimes brought home porcupine meat  and--yes, Cuffy actually smacked his lips! His mother was always telling  him not to smack his lips, but Cuffy forgot all about it now.

As Cuffy came running up Mr. Porcupine rolled himself into a round ball  and lay perfectly still. Now, Cuffy remembered that his father had often  told him never to touch a porcupine, because if he should he would get  his paws stuck full of quills. But now Cuffy decided that he would show  his father that he too was clever enough to kill a porcupine. So he  stepped close to the little round, prickly ball and gave it one good,  hard cuff.

The next instant Cuffy gave a howl of pain. He was so angry that he  struck the porcupine once more with his other front-paw.

Again Cuffy howled! Now both his front-paws were full of quills. They  looked just like pincushions. And as Cuffy saw what had happened he  began to cry. He wanted his mother.

So home he started. All the way he had to walk on his hind legs, because  it hurt him terribly whenever he put one of his front-paws on the  ground.

Cuffy wept very hard when Mrs. Bear pulled out the quills. And his paws  were so sore that he could not feed himself. His mother had to put into  his mouth bits of the frozen turnips that his father found in Farmer  Green's field. And though afterward Cuffy did many things that he ought  not to have done, he never, never touched a porcupine again.
