CUFFY WAKES UP (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Far up on the side of Blue Mountain lived Cuffy Bear with his father and  mother and his little sister Silkie. Mr. Bear's house was quite the  finest for many miles around. It was what people call a cave, being made  entirely of stone, and so there was no danger of its ever catching fire;  and since it was built straight into the side of the mountain the roof  was so very, very thick that Cuffy's father never had to worry for fear  a tree would fall upon his house and hurt his family. No matter how hard  the wind blew, Mr. Bear was never afraid of that.

Little Cuffy was not a bad bear at heart. But often when he was playing  with Silkie, his sister, he would lose his temper and cuff her on the  head and make her cry. Then his father or his mother would cuff _him_.  Somehow, he never could learn not to strike out when he became angry.  That was why he was called Cuffy. It happened sometimes that a day or  two would pass without Cuffy's cuffing his sister. And Mr. Bear and Mrs.  Bear would begin to think that at last Cuffy had been cured of his bad  habit.

"I do believe the child is growing better mannered," Mrs. Bear would say  to her husband, as they watched their son and daughter playing upon the  floor. And then just as likely as not, the first thing they knew Cuffy  would give Silkie a good, hard box on the ear, or a slap right on the  end of her nose.

But for a long time every winter Cuffy was never naughty. You might  think that that was just before Christmas. But no--it was not then. All  winter long Cuffy was just as good as any little bear could be. He was  good because he was asleep! You see--when cold weather came, Mr. and  Mrs. Bear and their children stayed in their cozy house, which was snug  and warm, and slept and slept and slept for weeks and weeks until spring  came.

Now, this tale begins on the very first day of spring. And on that day  Mr. Bear waked up. He rose slowly to his feet, for his bones felt stiff  because he had been asleep for such a long time. And he was hungry--oh!  very hungry, because he had not eaten anything for months and months,  since he went to sleep at the beginning of winter.

He went to the door of his house and looked out. And he saw that the  weather was warm and fine. So he stepped back into the bedroom and  said--

_"Ou-e-e-ee!"_ Just like that. And then Mrs. Bear awaked. "Spring has  come," Mr. Bear told her, "and I am going out to fetch something to eat.  Wake up Cuffy and Silkie and tell them that it is time to get up."

Gently Mrs. Bear roused Cuffy and Silkie.

"Come, children! Run out and play and get your lungs full of nice, fresh  air. Now, be good and don't go far away!" she said.
