CUFFY FRIGHTENS HIS MOTHER (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  When Cuffy Bear reached home, after his adventure with the bees, he  found that his father and mother and his sister Silkie were just sitting  down to their evening meal. Cuffy didn't speak to them as he came into  the room where they were. He felt too miserable to say a word, with his  face aching and burning, and a terrible smarting in his eyes. So he just  stumbled inside the room and tried to make himself as small as he could,  so he wouldn't be noticed.

Cuffy's parents and his little sister all looked at the little bear who  had come into their house without even a knock. And his father said, in  a cross voice--

"Go away, little bear. Where are your manners?"

Cuffy didn't know what to make of that. He didn't know what his father  meant. So he just stood there and stared.

"What do you want?" his father asked him. "Whose little bear are you?  And whatever is the matter with your face?"

Actually, Cuffy's own father didn't know him. And neither did his mother  or his sister. You see, Cuffy's face was so swollen from the bees'  stings that his face did not look like a little bear's face at all. His  nose, instead of being smooth and pointed, was one great lump. And he  hadn't a sign of an eye--just two slits.

"What's the matter with you?" Mr. Bear asked again. "Are you ill? Have  you the black measles?"

At that, Mrs. Bear rose hastily from the table and snatched Silkie up  from her high-chair and took her right out of the room. The thought of  black measles frightened Mrs. Bear. You know, they are ever so much  worse than _plain_ measles. And she was afraid Silkie would catch them.

Well, poor Cuffy felt more miserable than ever. He saw that his own  family didn't know him. And he wondered what was going to become of him.  Then, when his father told him very sternly to leave his house at once,  Cuffy began to cry.

"Oh! oh! oh!" he sobbed. "It's me--it's only me!" he cried. That very  morning, at breakfast, his father had told him to say "It is I," instead  of "It is _me_." But Cuffy forgot all about that, now.

"What! Are you my Cuffy?" his father exclaimed. For he knew Cuffy at  last. You see, the bees hadn't stung Cuffy's _voice_. And in no time at  all Cuffy was tucked into his little bed and his mother was gently  licking his poor, aching face with her tongue. Among bears that is  thought to be the very best thing to do for bee-stings.

After a while Cuffy stopped crying. And it was not long before he had  fallen asleep.

But it was two days before Cuffy Bear felt really himself again. And  then his father went off into the forest with him and Cuffy led the way  to the bee-tree; for Mr. Bear knew enough about bees so that he could  take their honey away from them without getting stung badly. He didn't  mind just a _few_ stings, you know.

Well--what do you think happened? When they came to the old tree Mr.  Bear took just one look at the nest into which Cuffy had thrust his  paw. And then he began to laugh, though he was somewhat disappointed, as  you will see.

"Those aren't bees!" he told Cuffy. "That's a hornets' nest!... We'd get  no honey there."
