CUFFY AND THE MAPLE-SUGAR (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Another day had come and all the morning long Cuffy Bear and his sister  Silkie played and played as hard as they could. They played that they  were making maple-sugar. And they pretended to hang buckets on all the  trees near Mr. Bear's house. There were no maple trees about Cuffy's  home--only pine and hemlock and spruce--but if you are just _pretending_  to make maple-sugar any sort of tree will do.

While they were playing Cuffy kept wishing for some _real_ maple-sugar.  After all, the little cakes of snow that he and Silkie made and _called_  maple-sugar seemed very tasteless, no matter how much Cuffy pretended.  And later, when Silkie was taking her nap, and Cuffy had no one to play  with, he became so angry with the make-believe sugar that he struck the  little pats of snow as hard as he could and spoiled them. And then,  after one look toward the door of his father's house--to make sure that  his mother did not see him--Cuffy started on a trot down the  mountainside.

What do you suppose he was going to do?

To tell the truth, Cuffy himself did not quite know. When he came to the  tree that he had found the day before he stopped and drank some of the  sap once more; and he tried to imagine how sugar would taste _a hundred  times sweeter_. Then Cuffy went on down the mountainside.

At last he spied a little house in a clearing. From its chimney a  stream of smoke rose, and as Cuffy peeped from behind a tree he saw a  man come out and pick up an armful of wood from the woodpile nearby.  While Cuffy watched, the man carried in several loads. Soon the smoke  began fairly to pour out of the chimney; and then the man came out once  more, picked up an axe near the woodpile, and started off toward the  other side of the clearing.

Cuffy was trembling with excitement. The wind blew right in his face and  brought to him two odors that were quite different. One was the  man-scent, which Cuffy did not like at all, and which made his legs want  to run away. The other smell was most delightfully sweet. And it made  his nose want to go forward.

Which do you think won--Cuffy's nose or his legs?... Yes! His nose won!  Pretty soon Cuffy slipped from behind the tree and scampered as fast as  he could run to the door of the sugar-house--for that was what he had  found. He stuck his head inside and oh, joy! there was no one there.

Just inside the door stood a tub full of something brown. One sniff told  Cuffy that it was maple-sugar and he began to gulp great mouthfuls of  it. Yes! his father was right. It certainly was a hundred times sweeter  than the sap.

In the middle of the room was a big pan which gave off clouds of steam.  Cuffy wanted to see it. And with his mouth full of sugar he walked up to  the pan and looked into it. He saw a golden liquid, and Cuffy felt that  he simply _must_ taste that too. So he dipped both his front paws right  into the bubbling syrup.
