CUFFY CLIMBS BLUE MOUNTAIN (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Cuffy Bear had never been very far up Blue Mountain beyond the place  where his father's house nestled among the evergreens. You know, the  summer before he had been a very small little bear indeed, and the  higher one goes up Blue Mountain the harder the climbing becomes. But  now Cuffy was growing very fast; and he was able to scramble up places  he could never have even crept a year ago. Each day now Cuffy climbed a  little nearer the top of Blue Mountain. And at last the day came when he  reached the very top. It was so high that the trees did not grow there.  He found nothing but rocks everywhere, with just a little earth to fill  the cracks.

Cuffy thought it great fun to clamber about all by himself and look down  at the hills and valleys that stretched away in all directions. Indeed,  he hated to leave that delightful spot. But he noticed that the sun was  getting low in the west and he knew that he must hurry home. So Cuffy  started down the mountainside.

He did not pick out the easiest way to go. Oh, no! He chose the very  steepest places to slide down. And as he went slipping down the steepest  cliff of all he came upon something that gave him a great surprise. For  he saw, built right in the crack of a ledge, a big bird's nest made of  sticks. It was the biggest bird's nest Cuffy had ever seen; and in it  were two great white eggs. They were the greatest white eggs Cuffy had  ever seen, too.

How lucky! At least, that was what Cuffy thought then. For he was very  fond of birds' eggs, and his climb had made him even hungrier than  usual. He stopped then and there and with one rap of the paw he broke  one of the eggs and began to eat it.

Cuffy was enjoying his lunch very much. He had almost finished the first  egg and was just about to turn to the other when he heard a deafening  scream.

Cuffy looked all around. He thought that perhaps there was a pig up  there on the mountain. But no! He couldn't see a thing. Then came that  cry again. This time it was louder. And it seemed to come from right  over Cuffy's head. He looked up then. And there was an enormous bird  dropping right down on top of him! It seemed to Cuffy that its wings  stretched as wide as the branches of the great pine tree in his  father's front-yard. He never even dreamed that there could be as big a  bird in the whole world. And during that one instant that Cuffy's little  beady bright eyes were turned upwards he saw that the great bird had a  wicked, hooked beak and claws that were as sharp as his own, and ever so  much longer.

One look was enough for Cuffy. He turned and tumbled down the steep  cliff, head over heels, with the eagle following him.
