CUFFY BEAR GROWS SLEEPY (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Far up Blue Mountain, and down in the valley too, the leaves had long  ago fallen off the trees. And for some time the ground had been white  with snow; for winter had come again. And Cuffy Bear's sister Silkie had  had a birthday-party the very first day it snowed. Cuffy and Silkie  shouted with glee each morning now, when they went out of doors, where  the earth was covered with a snow-blanket. And they played and played  and had just as good a time as little boys and girls have when winter  comes. As they scampered about in the door-yard their feet left tracks  that looked exactly like the foot-prints of barefooted girls and boys.  They played tag, and hide-and-seek, and turned somersaults. And one day,  when Mrs. Bear called them into the house, they ate, each of them,  several quarts of chestnuts which Mr. Bear had gathered and brought  home. In fact, before Mrs. Bear knew it they had eaten a great many more  chestnuts than were good for them. And Cuffy, who had eaten the most,  soon began to have a pain in his stomach.

"That's what you get for being greedy," his mother told him.

"I didn't eat many chestnuts," Cuffy said.

Mrs. Bear pointed to the floor.

"What do you call those?" she asked.

"Chestnut-shells," Cuffy replied, hanging his head. There was a great  heap of shells on the floor where Cuffy had sat.

"Pick them all up--every one of them," his mother ordered. "And when  you have finished you may take a nap--both of you."

Cuffy yawned.

"What do you say?" Mrs. Bear asked severely.

"Excuse me!" Cuffy said hastily.

"That's better!" said Mrs. Bear. "Now do as I say. You'll be asleep  before you know it. And I don't intend to have those chestnut shells  lying on the floor all winter."

You may think that that was a queer thing for Mrs. Bear to say. But when  you see what happened, you'll understand what Mrs. Bear meant.

As Cuffy and Silkie sat down on the floor and began gathering up the  chestnut-shells they both yawned and yawned. And since Mrs. Bear had  left the room they didn't bother to say "Excuse me!" They were _so_  sleepy! And before little Silkie had finished picking up her shells she  just rolled herself up into a round ball and fell fast asleep. As for  Cuffy, being a little older, he managed to stay awake just long enough  to get the floor all nice and clean. And then _he_ rolled himself into a  ball and _he_ went to sleep, right there on the floor.

So Mrs. Bear found them when she came back into the room. She smiled as  she saw them. And picking up first one and then the other she carried  them into their little bed-chamber and put them down gently and covered  them over with leaves, so they would be snug and warm. Yes, Mrs. Bear  wanted her children to be warm, for she knew that they would not wake up  again until spring. She had noticed for several days that Cuffy and  Silkie were growing sleepy. And to tell the truth, Mrs. Bear was  becoming sleepy herself. That very night she and Mr. Bear went to bed a  whole hour earlier than usual. And the next day they never minded at all  how cold it grew outside or how much the wind howled. For not one of Mr.  Bear's family waked up at all! They just slept and slept and slept, the  whole winter long.

  THE END
