CUPID'S LAST APPEARANCE (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 10)

A picnic supper on the grass followed the games, and then, as twilight  began to fall, the young people were marshalled to the coach-house, now  transformed into a rustic theatre. One big door was open, and seats,  arranged lengthwise, faced the red table-cloths which formed the  curtain. A row of lamps made very good foot-lights, and an invisible  band performed a Wagner-like overture on combs, tin trumpets, drums, and  pipes, with an accompaniment of suppressed laughter.

Many of the children had never seen any thing like it, and sat staring  about them in mute admiration and expectancy; but the older ones  criticised freely, and indulged in wild speculations as to the meaning  of various convulsions of nature going on behind the curtain.

While Teacher was dressing the actresses for the tragedy, Miss Celia and  Thorny, who were old hands at this sort of amusement, gave a "Potato"  pantomime as a side show.

Across an empty stall a green cloth was fastened, so high that the heads  of the operators were not seen. A little curtain flew up, disclosing the  front of a Chinese pagoda painted on pasteboard, with a door and window  which opened quite naturally. This stood on one side, several green  trees with paper lanterns hanging from the boughs were on the other  side, and the words "Tea Garden," printed over the top, showed the  nature of this charming spot.

Few of the children had ever seen the immortal Punch and Judy, so this  was a most agreeable novelty, and before they could make out what it  meant, a voice began to sing, so distinctly that every word was heard,--



"In China there lived a little man,

  His name was Chingery Wangery Chan."

Here the hero "took the stage" with great dignity, clad in a loose  yellow jacket over a blue skirt, which concealed the hand that made his  body. A pointed hat adorned his head, and on removing this to bow he  disclosed a bald pate with a black queue in the middle, and a Chinese  face nicely painted on the potato, the lower part of which was hollowed  out to fit Thorny's first finger, while his thumb and second finger were  in the sleeves of the yellow jacket, making a lively pair of arms. While  he saluted, the song went on,--



"His legs were short, his feet were small,

  And this little man could not walk at all."

Which assertion was proved to be false by the agility with which the  "little man" danced a jig in time to the rollicking chorus,--



"Chingery changery ri co day,

  Ekel tekel happy man;

  Uron odesko canty oh, oh,

  Gallopy wallopy China go."

At the close of the dance and chorus, Chan retired into the tea garden,  and drank so many cups of the national beverage, with such comic  gestures, that the spectators were almost sorry when the opening of the  opposite window drew all eyes in that direction. At the lattice appeared  a lovely being; for this potato had been pared, and on the white surface  were painted pretty pink checks, red lips, black eyes, and oblique  brows; through the tuft of dark silk on the head were stuck several  glittering pins, and a pink jacket shrouded the plump figure of this  capital little Chinese lady. After peeping coyly out, so that all could  see and admire, she fell to counting the money from a purse, so large  her small hands could hardly hold it on the window seat. While she did  this, the song went on to explain,--



"Miss Ki Hi was short and squat,

  She had money and he had not

  So off to her he resolved to go,

  And play her a tune on his little banjo."

During the chorus to this verse Chan was seen tuning his instrument in  the garden, and at the end sallied gallantly forth to sing the following  tender strain,--



"Whang fun li,

  Tang hua ki,

  Hong Kong do ra me!

  Ah sin lo,

  Pan to fo,

  Tsing up chin leute!"

Carried away by his passion, Chan dropped his banjo, fell upon his  knees, and, clasping his hands, bowed his forehead in the dust before  his idol. But, alas!--



"Miss Ki Hi heard his notes of love,

  And held her wash-bowl up above

  It fell upon the little man,

  And this was the end of Chingery Chan,"

Indeed it was; for, as the doll's basin of real water was cast forth by  the cruel charmer, poor Chan expired in such strong convulsions that his  head rolled down among the audience. Miss Ki Hi peeped to see what had  become of her victim, and the shutter decapitated her likewise, to the  great delight of the children, who passed around the heads, pronouncing  a "Potato" pantomime "first-rate fun."

Then they settled themselves for the show, having been assured by  Manager Thorny that they were about to behold the most elegant and  varied combination ever produced on any stage. And when one reads the  following very inadequate description of the somewhat mixed  entertainment, it is impossible to deny that the promise made was nobly  kept.

After some delay and several crashes behind the curtain, which mightily  amused the audience, the performance began with the well-known tragedy  of "Bluebeard;" for Bab had set her heart upon it, and the young folks  had acted it so often in their plays that it was very easy to get up,  with a few extra touches to scenery and costumes. Thorny was superb as  the tyrant with a beard of bright blue worsted, a slouched hat and long  feather, fur cloak, red hose, rubber boots, and a real sword which  clanked tragically as he walked. He spoke in such a deep voice, knit his  corked eye-brows, and glared so frightfully, that it was no wonder poor  Fatima quaked before him as he gave into her keeping an immense bunch of  keys with one particularly big, bright one, among them.

Bab was fine to see, with Miss Celia's blue dress sweeping behind her, a  white plume in her flowing hair, and a real necklace with a pearl locket  about her neck. She did her part capitally, especially the shriek she  gave when she looked into the fatal closet, the energy with which she  scrubbed the tell-tale key, and her distracted tone when she called out:  "Sister Anne, O, sister Anne, do you see anybody coming?" while her  enraged husband was roaring: "Will you come down, madam, or shall I come  and fetch you?"

Betty made a captivating Anne,--all in white muslin, and a hat full of  such lovely pink roses that she could not help putting up one hand to  feel them as she stood on the steps looking out at the little window for  the approaching brothers who made such a din that it sounded like a  dozen horsemen instead if two.

Ben and Billy were got up regardless of expense in the way of arms; for  their belts were perfect arsenals, and their wooden swords were big  enough to strike terror into any soul, though they struck no sparks out  of Bluebeard's blade in the awful combat which preceded the villain's  downfall and death.

The boys enjoyed this part intensely, and cries of "Go it, Ben!" "Hit  him again, Billy!" "Two against one isn't fair!" "Thorny's a match for  'em." "Now he's down, hurray!" cheered on the combatants, till, after a  terrific struggle, the tyrant fell, and with convulsive twitchings of  the scarlet legs, slowly expired while the ladies sociably fainted in  each other's arms, and the brothers waved their swords and shook hands  over the corpse of their enemy.

This piece was rapturously applauded, and all the performers had to  appear and bow their thanks, led by the defunct Bluebeard, who mildly  warned the excited audience that if they "didn't look out the seats  would break down, and then there'd be a nice mess."

Calmed by this fear they composed themselves, and waited with ardor for  the next play, which promised to be a lively one, judging from the  shrieks of laughter which came from behind the curtain.

"Sanch 's going to be in it, I know; for I heard Ben say, 'Hold him  still; he won't bite,'" whispered Sam, longing to "jounce up and down,  so great was his satisfaction at the prospect, for the dog was  considered the star of the company.

"I hope Bab will do something else, she is so funny. Wasn't her dress  elegant?" said Sally Folsum, burning to wear a long silk gown and a  feather in her hair.

"I like Betty best, she's so cunning, and she peeked out of the window  just as if she really saw somebody coming," answered Liddy Peckham,  privately resolving to tease mother for some pink roses before another  Sunday came.

Up went the curtain at last, and a voice announced "A Tragedy in Three  Tableaux." "There's Betty!" was the general exclamation, as the audience  recognized a familiar face under the little red hood worn by the child  who stood receiving a basket from Teacher, who made a nice mother with  her finger up, as if telling the small messenger not to loiter by the  way.

"I know what that is!" cried Sally; "it's 'Mabel on Midsummer Day.' The  piece Miss Celia spoke; don't you know?"

"There isn't any sick baby, and Mabel had a 'kerchief pinned about her  head.' I say it's Red Riding Hood," answered Liddy, who had begun to  learn Mary Howitt's pretty poem for her next piece, and knew all about  it.

The question was settled by the appearance of the wolf in the second  scene, and such a wolf! On few amateur stages do we find so natural an  actor for that part, or so good a costume, for Sanch was irresistibly  droll in the gray wolf-skin which usually lay beside Miss Celia's bed,  now fitted over his back and fastened neatly down underneath, with his  own face peeping out at one end, and the handsome tail bobbing gayly at  the other. What a comfort that tail was to Sancho, none but a bereaved  bow-wow could ever tell. It reconciled him to his distasteful part at  once, it made rehearsals a joy, and even before the public he could not  resist turning to catch a glimpse of the noble appendage, while his own  brief member wagged with the proud consciousness that though the tail  did not match the head, it was long enough to be seen of all men and  dogs.

That was a pretty picture, for the little maid came walking in with the  basket on her arm, and such an innocent face inside the bright hood that  it was quite natural the gray wolf should trot up to her with deceitful  friendliness, that she should pat and talk to him confidingly about the  butter for grandma, and then that they should walk away together, he  politely carrying her basket, she with her hand on his head, little  dreaming what evil plans were taking shape inside.

The children encored that, but there was no time to repeat it, so they  listened to more stifled merriment behind the red table-cloths, and  wondered whether the next scene would be the wolf popping his head out  of the window as Red Riding Hood knocks, or the tragic end of that  sweet child.

It was neither, for a nice bed had been made, and in it reposed the  false grandmother, with a ruffled nightcap on, a white gown, and  spectacles. Betty lay beside the wolf, staring at him as if just about  to say, "Why, grandma, what great teeth you've got!" for Sancho's mouth  was half open and a red tongue hung out, as he panted with the exertion  of keeping still. This tableau was so very good, and yet so funny, that  the children clapped and shouted frantically; this excited the dog, who  gave a bounce and would have leaped off the bed to bark at the rioters,  if Betty had not caught him by the legs, and Thorny dropped the curtain  just at the moment when the wicked wolf was apparently in the act of  devouring the poor little girl, with most effective growls.

They had to come out then, and did so, both much dishevelled by the late  tussle, for Sancho's cap was all over one eye, and Betty's hood was  anywhere but on her head. She made her courtesy prettily, however; her  fellow-actor bowed with as much dignity as a short night-gown permitted,  and they retired to their well-earned repose.

Then Thorny, looking much excited, appeared to make the following  request: "As one of the actors in the next piece is new to the business,  the company must all keep as still as mice, and not stir till I give the  word. It's perfectly splendid! so don't you spoil it by making a row."

"What do you suppose it is?" asked every one, and listened with all  their might to get a hint, if possible. But what they heard only whetted  their curiosity and mystified them more and more. Bab's voice cried in a  loud whisper, "Isn't Ben beautiful?" Then there was a thumping noise,  and Miss Celia said, in an anxious tone, "Oh, do be careful," while Ben  laughed out as if he was too happy to care who heard him, and Thorny  bawled "Whoa!" in a way which would have attracted attention if Lita's  head had not popped out of her box, more than once, to survey the  invaders of her abode, with a much astonished expression.

"Sounds kind of circusy, don't it?" said Sam to Billy, who had come out  to receive the compliments of the company and enjoy the tableau at a  safe distance.

"You just wait till you see what's coming.  It beats any circus I ever  saw," answered Billy, rubbing his hands with the air of a man who had  seen many instead of but one.

"Ready! Be quick and get out of the way when she goes off!" whispered  Ben, but they heard him and prepared for pistols, rockets or  combustibles of some sort, as ships were impossible under the  circumstances, and no other "She" occurred to them.

A unanimous "O-o-o-o!" was heard when the curtain rose, but a stern  "Hush!" from Thorny kept them mutely staring with all their eyes at the  grand spectacle of the evening. There stood Lita with a wide flat saddle  on her back, a white head-stall and reins, blue rosettes in her ears,  and the look of a much-bewildered beast in her bright eyes. But who the  gauzy, spangled, winged creature was, with a gilt crown on its head, a  little bow in its hand, and one white slipper in the air, while the  other seemed merely to touch the saddle, no one could tell for a minute,  so strange and splendid did the apparition appear. No wonder Ben was not  recognized in this brilliant disguise, which was more natural to him  than Billy's blue flannel or Thorny's respectable garments. He had so  begged to be allowed to show himself "just once," as he used to be in  the days when "father" tossed him up on the bare-backed old General, for  hundreds to see and admire, that Miss Celia had consented, much against  her will, and hastily arranged some bits of spangled tarlatan over the  white cotton suit which was to simulate the regulation tights. Her old  dancing slippers fitted, and gold paper did the rest, while Ben, sure of  his power over Lita, promised not to break his bones, and lived for days  on the thought of the moment when he could show the boys that he had not  boasted vainly of past splendors.

Before the delighted children could get their breath, Lita gave signs of  her dislike to the foot-lights, and, gathering up the reins that lay on  her neck, Ben gave the old cry, "Houp-la!" and let her go, as he had  often done before, straight out of the coach-house for a gallop round  the orchard.

"Just turn about and you can see perfectly well, but stay where you are  till he comes back," commanded Thorny, as signs of commotion appeared in  the excited audience.

Round went the twenty children as if turned by one crank, and sitting  there they looked out into the moonlight where the shining figure  flashed to and fro, now so near they could see the smiling face under  the crown, now so far away that it glittered like a fire-fly among the  dusky green. Lita enjoyed that race as heartily as she had done several  others of late, and caracoled about as if anxious to make up for her  lack of skill by speed and obedience. How much Ben liked it there is no  need to tell, yet it was a proof of the good which three months of a  quiet, useful life had done him, that even as he pranced gayly under the  boughs thick with the red and yellow apples almost ready to be gathered,  he found this riding in the fresh air with only his mates for an  audience pleasanter than the crowded tent, the tired horses, profane  men, and painted women, friendly as some of them had been to him.

After the first burst was over, he felt rather glad, on the whole, that  he was going back to plain clothes, helpful school, and kindly people,  who cared more to have him a good boy than the most famous Cupid that  ever stood on one leg with a fast horse under him.

"You may make as much noise as you like, now; Lita's had her run and  will be as quiet as a lamb after it. Pull up, Ben, and come in; sister  says you'll get cold," shouted Thorny, as the rider came cantering round  after a leap over the lodge gate and back again.

So Ben pulled up, and the admiring boys and girls were allowed to gather  about him, loud in their praises as they examined the pretty mare and  the mythological character who lay easily on her back.

He looked very little like the god of love now; for he had lost one  slipper and splashed his white legs with dew and dust, the crown had  slipped down upon his neck, and the paper wings hung in an apple-tree  where he had left them as he went by. No trouble in recognizing Ben,  now; but somehow he didn't want to be seen, and, instead of staying to  be praised, he soon slipped away, making Lita his excuse to vanish  behind the curtain while the rest went into the house to have a  finishing-off game of blindman's-buff in the big kitchen.

"Well, Ben, are you satisfied?" asked Miss Celia, as she stayed a moment  to unpin the remains of his gauzy scarf and tunic.

"Yes, 'm, thank you, it was tip-top."

"But you look rather sober.  Are you tired, or is it because you don't  want to take these trappings off and be plain Ben again?" she said,  looking down into his face as he lifted it for her to free him from his  gilded collar.

"I want to take 'em off; for somehow I don't feel respectable," and he  kicked away the crown he had helped to make so carefully, adding with a  glance that said more than his words: "I'd rather be 'plain Ben' than  any one else, for you like to have me."

"Indeed I do; and I'm so glad to hear you say that, because I was afraid  you'd long to be off to the old ways, and all I've tried to do would be  undone. Would you like to go back, Ben?" and Miss Celia held his chin an  instant, to watch the brown face that looked so honestly back at her.

"No, I wouldn't--unless--he was there and wanted me."

The chin quivered just a bit, but the black eyes were as bright as ever,  and the boy's voice so earnest, she knew he spoke the truth, and laid  her white hand softly on his head, as she answered in the tone he loved  so much, because no one else had ever used it to him,--

"Father is not there; but I know he wants you, dear, and I am sure he  would rather see you in a home like this than in the place you came  from. Now go and dress; but, tell me first, has it been a happy  birthday?"

"Oh, Miss Celia! I didn't know they could be so beautiful, and this is  the beautifulest part of it; I don't know how to thank you, but I'm  going to try--" and, finding words wouldn't come fast enough, Ben just  put his two arms round her, quite speechless with gratitude; then, as if  ashamed of his little outburst, he knelt down in a great hurry to untie  his one shoe.

But Miss Celia liked his answer better than the finest speech ever made  her, and went away through the moonlight, saying to herself,--

"If I can bring one lost lamb into the fold, I shall be the fitter for a  shepherd's wife, by-and-by."
