Curdie Comes to Grief (Fiction:- Ages 5 to 10)

Everything was for some time quiet above ground.  The king was still  away in a distant part of his dominions.  The men-at-arms kept watching  about the house.  They had been considerably astonished by finding at  the foot of the rock in the garden the hideous body of the goblin  creature killed by Curdie; but they came to the conclusion that it had  been slain in the mines, and had crept out there to die; and except an  occasional glimpse of a live one they saw nothing to cause alarm.  Curdie kept watching in the mountain, and the goblins kept burrowing  deeper into the earth.  As long as they went deeper there was, Curdie  judged, no immediate danger.

To Irene the summer was as full of pleasure as ever, and for a long  time, although she often thought of her grandmother during the day, and  often dreamed about her at night, she did not see her.  The kids and  the flowers were as much her delight as ever, and she made as much  friendship with the miners' children she met on the mountain as Lootie  would permit; but Lootie had very foolish notions concerning the  dignity of a princess, not understanding that the truest princess is  just the one who loves all her brothers and sisters best, and who is  most able to do them good by being humble towards them.  At the same  time she was considerably altered for the better in her behaviour to  the princess.  She could not help seeing that she was no longer a mere  child, but wiser than her age would account for.  She kept foolishly  whispering to the servants, however--sometimes that the princess was  not right in her mind, sometimes that she was too good to live, and  other nonsense of the same sort.

All this time Curdie had to be sorry, without a chance of confessing,  that he had behaved so unkindly to the princess.  This perhaps made him  the more diligent in his endeavours to serve her. His mother and he  often talked on the subject, and she comforted him, and told him she  was sure he would some day have the opportunity he so much desired.

Here I should like to remark, for the sake of princes and princesses in  general, that it is a low and contemptible thing to refuse to confess a  fault, or even an error.  If a true princess has done wrong, she is  always uneasy until she has had an opportunity of throwing the  wrongness away from her by saying: 'I did it; and I wish I had not; and  I am sorry for having done it.' So you see there is some ground for  supposing that Curdie was not a miner only, but a prince as well.  Many  such instances have been known in the world's history.

At length, however, he began to see signs of a change in the  proceedings of the goblin excavators: they were going no deeper, but  had commenced running on a level; and he watched them, therefore, more  closely than ever.  All at once, one night, coming to a slope of very  hard rock, they began to ascend along the inclined plane of its  surface.  Having reached its top, they went again on a level for a  night or two, after which they began to ascend once more, and kept on  at a pretty steep angle.  At length Curdie judged it time to transfer  his observation to another quarter, and the next night he did not go to  the mine at all; but, leaving his pickaxe and clue at home, and taking  only his usual lumps of bread and pease pudding, went down the mountain  to the king's house.  He climbed over the wall, and remained in the  garden the whole night, creeping on hands and knees from one spot to  the other, and lying at full length with his ear to the ground,  listening.  But he heard nothing except the tread of the men-at-arms as  they marched about, whose observation, as the night was cloudy and  there was no moon, he had little difficulty in avoiding.  For several  following nights he continued to haunt the garden and listen, but with  no success.

At length, early one evening, whether it was that he had got careless  of his own safety, or that the growing moon had become strong enough to  expose him, his watching came to a sudden end.  He was creeping from  behind the rock where the stream ran out, for he had been listening all  round it in the hope it might convey to his ear some indication of the  whereabouts of the goblin miners, when just as he came into the  moonlight on the lawn, a whizz in his ear and a blow upon his leg  startled him.  He instantly squatted in the hope of eluding further  notice.  But when he heard the sound of running feet, he jumped up to  take the chance of escape by flight. He fell, however, with a keen  shoot of pain, for the bolt of a crossbow had wounded his leg, and the  blood was now streaming from it.  He was instantly laid Hold of by two  or three of the men-at-arms.  It was useless to struggle, and he  submitted in silence.

'It's a boy!' cried several of them together, in a tone of amazement.  'I thought it was one of those demons.  What are you about here?'

'Going to have a little rough usage, apparently,' said Curdie,  laughing, as the men shook him.

'Impertinence will do you no good.  You have no business here in the  king's grounds, and if you don't give a true account of yourself, you  shall fare as a thief.'

'Why, what else could he be?' said one.

'He might have been after a lost kid, you know,' suggested another.

'I see no good in trying to excuse him.  He has no business here,  anyhow.'

'Let me go away, then, if you please,' said Curdie.

'But we don't please--not except you give a good account of yourself.'

'I don't feel quite sure whether I can trust you,' said Curdie.

'We are the king's own men-at-arms,' said the captain courteously, for  he was taken with Curdie's appearance and courage.

'Well, I will tell you all about it--if you will promise to listen to  me and not do anything rash.'

'I call that cool!' said one of the party, laughing.  'He will tell us  what mischief he was about, if we promise to do as pleases him.'

'I was about no mischief,' said Curdie.

But ere he could say more he turned faint, and fell senseless on the  grass.  Then first they discovered that the bolt they had shot, taking  him for one of the goblin creatures, had wounded him.

They carried him into the house and laid him down in the hall.  The  report spread that they had caught a robber, and the servants crowded  in to see the villain.  Amongst the rest came the nurse. The moment she  saw him she exclaimed with indignation:

'I declare it's the same young rascal of a miner that was rude to me  and the princess on the mountain.  He actually wanted to kiss the  princess.  I took good care of that--the wretch!  And he was prowling  about, was he?  Just like his impudence!' The princess being fast  asleep, she could misrepresent at her pleasure.

When he heard this, the captain, although he had considerable doubt of  its truth, resolved to keep Curdie a prisoner until they could search  into the affair.  So, after they had brought him round a little, and  attended to his wound, which was rather a bad one, they laid him, still  exhausted from the loss of blood, upon a mattress in a disused  room--one of those already so often mentioned--and locked the door, and  left him.  He passed a troubled night, and in the morning they found  him talking wildly.  In the evening he came to himself, but felt very  weak, and his leg was exceedingly painful.  Wondering where he was, and  seeing one of the men-at-arms in the room, he began to question him and  soon recalled the events of the preceding night.  As he was himself  unable to watch any more, he told the soldier all he knew about the  goblins, and begged him to tell his companions, and stir them up to  watch with tenfold vigilance; but whether it was that he did not talk  quite coherently, or that the whole thing appeared incredible,  certainly the man concluded that Curdie was only raving still, and  tried to coax him into holding his tongue.  This, of course, annoyed  Curdie dreadfully, who now felt in his turn what it was not to be  believed, and the consequence was that his fever returned, and by the  time when, at his persistent entreaties, the captain was called, there  could be no doubt that he was raving.  They did for him what they  could, and promised everything he wanted, but with no intention of  fulfilment.  At last he went to sleep, and when at length his sleep  grew profound and peaceful, they left him, locked the door again, and  withdrew, intending to revisit him early in the morning.
