DADDY ESCAPES (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  THAT was a fine idea of General Antenna's--that plan of bringing  stepladders, so that the ant army might climb up on them and reach Daddy  Longlegs, whom they were attacking.

And Captain Kidd told the General on the spot that it was a most happy  thought.

"Then do as I tell you, at once!" the General ordered pompously.

"I can't!" said Captain Kidd, who was terribly frightened, because the  General was sure to be angry.

"_Can't!_" cried General Antenna fiercely. "_Can't!_ What do you mean,  madam?" (Perhaps you did not know that Captain Kidd was a lady, as were  also the General and the whole army, too!)

Captain Kidd's voice broke as she stammered an answer to General  Antenna's rude demand.

"I know of only one stepladder in Pleasant Valley," she explained. "It  belongs to Farmer Green. And it's so heavy that the whole army couldn't  move it."

At that a shudder passed over General Antenna's fat body.

"Then we're as good as lost!" she shrieked. "Daddy Longlegs will defeat  us. And I'll never hear the last of it."

And right there on the edge of the battle-field General Antenna shed so  many bitter tears that Captain Kidd had to move aside slightly, to keep  her feet from getting wet.

"Don't weep!" cried the Captain in a husky voice. "It's not your  fault--really!"

"Whose is it, then?" asked the General brokenly.

"Why, Farmer Green is to blame, of course!" Captain Kidd replied. "If he  hadn't made his stepladder so big we might have used it and won the  battle just as easily as not."

"That's so!" the General agreed, drying her tears on a lace  handkerchief. "And from this time forth, Farmer Green and I are deadly  enemies!"

Meanwhile the battle still raged furiously. But Daddy Longlegs had not  received a single wound. And perceiving, at last, that he was quite  unharmed, he took heart again.

Finally it occurred to him that the ant army was totally unable to reach  him, borne high in the air as he was by his long legs. And as his fear  left him, he could think of no reason why he should stay where he was  any longer.

Accordingly he pulled himself together and began to walk away. He moved  right through the ant army; and the soldiers were powerless to stop him.

Just then General Antenna happened to glance over the battle-field. And  her sad look at once gave way to one of great joy. She even gave Captain  Kidd a hearty slap on the back--much to that lady's distress (because it  knocked her cap awry).

"Look!" cried the General. "We've won the battle after all; for the  enemy is retreating! Daddy Longlegs is running away!"

Hurrying off then, General Antenna joined her army, and told her  soldiers that they had shown themselves to be very brave, and that as a  reward they might each have an extra drink of milk that night with their  supper.

There was great rejoicing in the ant colony that evening. And General  Antenna caused the news of the victory to be carried throughout Pleasant  Valley.

But when he heard it, after he reached home, Daddy Longlegs laughed  merrily.

"Why, they never touched me!" he exclaimed.
