DADDY IS ATTACKED (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  WHEN Daddy Longlegs went to call on Rusty Wren he did not know that a  whole army had planned to capture him. But it was true, nevertheless,  that a plot had been hatched against him. Now, right beneath the big old  cherry tree where Rusty had his home there lived a colony of ants. And  it was Rusty's habit--and his wife's, as well--to enjoy an occasional  meal (or a light luncheon) by capturing and eating such ants as were not  spry enough to keep out of harm's way.

Such actions only served to make the Wren family heartily disliked by  every member of the ant colony. But there was nothing the ants could do  except to try to be careful. And they were so angry that since they were  powerless to harm the Wrens, they were quite ready and eager to vent  their spite on Rusty's smaller friends.

That was the reason why they had determined to attack Daddy Longlegs at  the very first opportunity.

Yes! The members of the ant colony had made up their minds to capture  Daddy the next time he should visit Rusty Wren. And the ant army of  fierce fighters was all prepared for a terrible battle. Each day  sentinels took their posts and stayed on watch, ready to give the alarm  the moment Daddy Longlegs came hobbling through the grass near the foot  of the cherry tree.

And when, at last, Daddy fell into the trap, on the day that he visited  Rusty to boast about his wagon ride, the news of his arrival spread like  wildfire.

The ants had not said a word to Daddy as he passed their home and  climbed up the cherry tree. They allowed him to go unharmed. But while  he was high up in the tree chatting with Rusty Wren, ants hurried back  to their stronghold from every direction. And in a surprisingly short  time the whole army was ready and waiting--waiting for Daddy Longlegs to  descend to the ground.

When he had finished his call, Daddy Longlegs left the cherry tree and  started homeward. But he had not gone more than a few inches when the  ant army sprang out of the ground as if by magic.

The soldiers were all around Daddy before he realized what was  happening. And then he saw that it was too late for him to turn back  and try to escape by climbing the tree again.

Being a timid person, he took fright at once. And looking up toward  Rusty Wren's house he cried, "Help! help!" in a terror-stricken voice.

But Daddy's shrieks brought no answer. Rusty Wren had flown away to find  food for his hungry children. The ant sentinels had seen him leave. And  they knew that they had nothing to fear from that quarter.

As the army closed in around him, Daddy Longlegs thought that he had  never been in such danger in all his life before. The army was so near  him that he could have seen the whites of the soldier's eyes--if they  had had any whites.
