DISTURBING THE NEIGHBORS (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  It was no wonder that Long Bill Wren's wife did not care for Ferdinand  Frog, after his blundering remark about her children.

Though her husband often told her that Mr. Frog must have been merely  joking, she insisted that he was not a safe person to have in the  neighborhood.

"That Mr. Frog certainly is a queer one," she said to her husband one  day. "I was watching him this morning. And what do you suppose I saw him  do?" Mrs. Wren did not wait for Long Bill to answer her question. "Mr.  Frog actually pulled off his own skin!" she cackled nervously.

"Cat-tails and pussy-willows!" Long Bill Wren exclaimed--which was his  way of showing he was surprised. "Mr. Frog must be ill. Maybe I ought to  go and tell Aunt Polly Woodchuck, the herb-doctor, and ask her to come  over here at once."

His wife, however, shook her head.

"He can't be ill," she said.

"Why not?"

"His appetite is still good," she explained. "I saw Mr. Frog swallow his  skin after he had pulled it off. And it didn't seem to disagree with  him. He went in swimming right afterwards."

"Ah!" Long Bill exclaimed. "That's a very dangerous thing to do. At  least, I've often heard Johnnie Green say that a boy ought not to go in  the water sooner than a full hour after he has had a meal."

"There he is now!" Mrs. Wren cried abruptly. "There's Mr. Frog!"

Peeping out of the doorway on one side of his ball-shaped house, Long  Bill could see Ferdinand Frog paddling about in Black Creek.

While they were watching him, he sank before their eyes. And after a  time they couldn't help feeling uneasy, because their odd neighbor did  not show himself again.

"I'm afraid----" Long Bill whispered at last----"I'm afraid he was taken  with a cramp, for that's what you get by swimming too soon after a  meal--so Johnnie Green says. . . . I'm glad now that we didn't let Mr.  Frog teach our children to swim, because it's easy to see that he's a  careless fellow."

So worried were Long Bill and his wife over Mr. Frog's disappearance  that they hurried out and told all their neighbors about it. And soon a  crowd had gathered upon the bank of the creek, to watch the spot where  Mr. Frog had vanished.

They stayed there for a long time. But to their great alarm, their  missing friend did not reappear.

"I hope he's safe," old Mr. Turtle piped in his thin, quavering voice.  "He's making a new suit for me; and I'd hate to have anything happen to  him."

"What's this--a party?" a voice called suddenly from under the bank. And  then Mr. Frog himself, looking fine and fit, hopped up and stood before  the company, with a broad grin on his face.

"Where have you been?" they shouted. "We were worried about you."

"Oh, I've been having a mud bath at the bottom of the creek," Mr. Frog  told them. "Mud baths, you know, are very healthful. And I advise you  all to try one."
