DO YOU LIKE BUTTER? (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

AFTER Mrs. Ladybug failed in her attempt to brush the dust off BetsyButterfly she grew more jealous of Betsy than ever.

It was really a shame that Mrs. Ladybug should feel like that. Usuallyshe was quite harmless, even if she was a busybody and a gossip. But shesimply couldn't forgive Betsy Butterfly for being so beautiful. And nowMrs. Ladybug began to neglect her children more than ever, in order tospy upon Betsy in the hope of discovering some new fault in her.

Betsy Butterfly soon noticed that wherever she went she was sure to seeMrs. Ladybug, who had a way of bobbing up in a most startling fashion.But Betsy was always quite polite to the jealous little creature. Andshe never failed to inquire for her health and that of her children aswell, even if she met Mrs. Ladybug a dozen times a day.

For some reason Mrs. Ladybug seemed quite touchy, where her family wasconcerned.

"You don't need to ask about my children," she told Betsy at last in asomewhat sharp tone. "They are in the best of health. And I'll let youknow in case they fall ill.... It's strange," she continued, "howeverybody in this neighborhood is always prying into my householdaffairs."

Betsy Butterfly smiled to herself. She did not care to quarrel with Mrs.Ladybug--nor with anyone else, for that matter. So she abruptlychanged the subject.

"Do you like butter?" she asked.

"Why, no!" said Mrs. Ladybug. "I don't care anything about it. At least,I never ate any."

"Then I don't see how you know whether you like it or not," Betsyobserved, "unless you've looked into a buttercup to find out."

Mrs. Ladybug was interested, in spite of herself.

"Can a person tell by doing that?" she wanted to know.

"It's a sure way," said Betsy Butterfly. "I was just looking into thisbuttercup that I'm sitting on when you flew up and spoke to me."

"Do _you_ like butter?" Mrs. Ladybug inquired.

"I'm afraid not," Betsy told her.

"I'd like to try, myself," Mrs. Ladybug exclaimed eagerly. "But I don'tknow how."

"It's simple enough," Betsy Butterfly replied. "You just look into abuttercup blossom.

"And if it makes your face yellow, then you're fond of butter--whetheryou ever had any or not."

So Mrs. Ladybug perched herself on a big blossom and peered earnestlyinto its cup.

"Is my face yellow?" she asked Betsy.

"I do believe it is!" Betsy Butterfly cried.

And Mrs. Ladybug looked much pleased.

"I've always known I had refined tastes," she remarked with a lofty air."And now I'd like to sample a bit of butter; but I don't know where tofind any."

"Butter? They make it at the farmhouse," Betsy informed her.

"Then perhaps Farmer Green's wife will let me have a little," Mrs.Ladybug said hopefully. "I'll go over to the farmhouse at once.... It'stoo bad you don't like butter, too," she added.

But secretly she was delighted that Betsy Butterfly had looked into abuttercup in vain.
