DOG SPOT'S PLANS (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  SOMEHOW old dog Spot and Miss Kitty Cat never became good friends. By  the time Miss Kitty Cat arrived on the farm in Pleasant Valley Spot had  lived there several years.

From the first day he met Miss Kitty in the kitchen Spot hadn't liked  her. Yet he claimed at the time that he was glad to see her. He said  that he could tell at once that he was going to have great sport with  her. He knew it would be fun to chase her!

Inside the farmhouse old Spot was careful how he behaved. The moment  Miss Kitty first set eyes on him she scurried under the table, where  she crouched and glared at him. That was scarcely what you might call a  friendly greeting. And Spot would have barked at her had he dared.

Since he didn't, he only whined a bit through his nose. You couldn't  have told what he meant by the sound.

Miss Kitty Cat didn't like his whining. She even opened her mouth wide  and said as much. She made an odd hissing noise, which amused old Spot  greatly. And he told Miss Kitty, in what was almost a growl (except that  it wasn't loud enough for one), "Wait till I catch you out of doors, my  lady! I'll have some fun with you."

Then Farmer Green's wife opened the door and told Spot to be gone.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself--" she scolded--"teasing a poor  little cat!"

Old dog Spot tucked his tail between his legs and crept through the  doorway, keeping one eye on the broom that Mrs. Green held in her hand.  And as soon as he was safely outside he gave two or three sharp yelps,  telling Miss Kitty Cat that he would watch for her the very first time  she set foot in the yard.

Somehow Miss Kitty Cat wasn't specially worried. She knew a thing or two  about dogs; and she didn't intend to let old Spot bully her. It took her  a few minutes to get over her anger. And then she came out from beneath  the table and lapped up the milk that Mrs. Green had set temptingly on  the floor, in a saucer.

When Miss Kitty had finished her meal she washed her face--a duty that  she performed with great care, for she prided herself on always looking  neat.

Watching her, no one would ever have guessed what was in her mind. "I'd  like to wash that dog's face for him!" Miss Kitty was saying to herself.  "He'd have some reason then for yelping and whining."

Having completed her toilet Miss Kitty jumped into a chair that stood in  the sunshine, near a window. And there she composed herself for a nap.  When she was well fed and well warmed she liked nothing better than to  curl herself up and doze and dream.

Meanwhile old dog Spot was telling everybody in the farmyard about the  new cat and the fun he intended to have with her.

"There'll be lively times around here when she comes outside the house,"  he chuckled.
