DOG SPOT'S PLAN (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  When Grunty Pig insisted that his own tightly curled tail was the most  beautiful one in the neighborhood, old dog Spot yawned.

"If that's the case," he remarked, "I should think you'd want your tail  where you could see it more easily. Don't you find it a nuisance to have  to turn your head around every time you want to look at your tail?"

Grunty Pig admitted that his tail wasn't in the most convenient place in  the world.

"If Farmer Green should cut off your tail and nail it up on the outside  of the barn," old Spot suggested, "you could look at it easily enough.  And it would give others a better chance to see it, too. Even the people  that drive along the road could enjoy it. Everybody spoke about the tall  corn that we nailed to the barn last fall. And I'm sure that folks would  admire your tail."

When Spot spoke of Farmer Green's cutting off his tail, Grunty Pig  winced. But as the old dog talked on and on Grunty forgot the painful  part of the plan.

"There's no doubt," he agreed, "that my tail would be a fine sight,  fastened up on the barn where everybody could gaze at it. But don't you  think, Mr. Spot, that I'd look very queer without any tail?"

"N--no!" Spot told him. "N--no! I've seen plenty of pigs without tails.  They didn't look queer at all. Really, they looked better without tails  than they would have looked with them."

Grunty Pig had listened carefully to what Spot said. Yet somehow he  couldn't quite make up his mind to part with his beautiful tail, even if  it would delight many more people when nailed to the outside of the  barn.

"I'd like to see one of those pigs," he said to Spot. "I'd like to see  how they look."

"That's easily arranged," old Spot told him. "I can show you a dozen of  them--all as pink and white and happy as they can be. And not a single  one of them with a tail!"

"I'd certainly like to see them," Grunty Pig murmured.

"They're a pretty sight," Spot assured him. "Don't you think you'd feel  uncomfortable if you appeared before them with a tail? Don't you want  to have yours cut off _before_ you go to see these tailless little  fellows? It seems to me you'd be more at your ease. It would certainly  be _polite_ of you."

Grunty Pig, however, cared little for politeness. He said that nobody  was polite to him. His brothers--and even his sisters--were always  knocking him down and trampling on him.

"Very well!" said Spot. "Squirm through that fence and follow me."

It was a tight squeeze. When Grunty Pig was half through the hole in the  fence he found himself stuck fast. He could move neither forward nor  back. "Oh, dear!" he wailed. "What shall I do?"

"Keep perfectly still!" old dog Spot cautioned him--as if Grunty Pig  could do anything else. "I'll jump the fence and help you."

Now, Grunty Pig thought that old Spot intended to give him a push.  Instead, Spot nipped him smartly.

It was exactly the sort of help that Grunty needed. He gave a frantic  plunge forward and fell, sprawling, on the ground outside the yard,  where Spot soon joined him.

"It takes old Spot to hurry 'em along," said the old dog gleefully.

Grunty Pig said "Umph! Umph!"

Old dog Spot was not quite sure what he meant.
