Don Giovanni De La Fortuna (Fiction:- Ages 3 to 5)



Sicilianische Mahrchen

There was once a man whose name was Don Giovanni de la Fortuna, and helived in a beautiful house that his father had built, and spent a greatdeal of money. Indeed, he spent so much that very soon there was noneleft, and Don Giovanni, instead of being a rich man with everythinghe could wish for, was forced to put on the dress of a pilgrim, and towander from place to place begging his bread.

One day he was walking down a broad road when he was stopped by ahandsome man he had never seen before, who, little as Don Giovanni knewit, was the devil himself.

'Would you like to be rich,' asked the devil, 'and to lead a pleasantlife?'

'Yes, of course I should,' replied the Don.

'Well, here is a purse; take it and say to it, "Dear purse, give me somemoney," and you will get as much as you can want But the charm will onlywork if you promise to remain three years, three months, and three dayswithout washing and without combing and without shaving your beard orchanging your clothes. If you do all this faithfully, when the time isup you shall keep the purse for yourself, and I will let you off anyother conditions.'

Now Don Giovanni was a man who never troubled his head about the future.He did not once think how very uncomfortable he should be all thosethree years, but only that he should be able, by means of the purse,to have all sorts of things he had been obliged to do without; so hejoyfully put the purse in his pocket and went on his way. He soon beganto ask for money for the mere pleasure of it, and there was always asmuch as he needed. For a little while he even forgot to notice how dirtyhe was getting, but this did not last long, for his hair became mattedwith dirt and hung over his eyes, and his pilgrim's dress was a mass ofhorrible rags and tatters.

He was in this state when, one morning, he happened to be passing a finepalace; and, as the sun was shining bright and warm, he sat down on thesteps and tried to shake off some of the dust which he had picked up onthe road. But in a few minutes a maid saw him, and said to her master,'I pray you, sir, to drive away that beggar who is sitting on the steps,or he will fill the whole house with his dirt.'

So the master went out and called from some distance off, for he wasreally afraid to go near the man, 'You filthy beggar, leave my house atonce!'

'You need not be so rude,' said Don Giovanni; 'I am not a beggar, and ifI chose I could force you and your wife to leave your house.'

'What is that you can do?' laughed the gentleman.

'Will you sell me your house?' asked Don Giovanni. 'I will buy it fromyou on the spot.'

'Oh, the dirty creature is quite mad!' thought the gentleman. 'I shalljust accept his offer for a joke.' And aloud he said: ' All right;follow me, and we will go to a lawyer and get him to make a contract.'And Don Giovanni followed him, and an agreement was drawn up by whichthe house was to be sold at once, and a large sum of money paid down ineight days. Then the Don went to an inn, where he hired two rooms, and,standing in one of them, said to his purse, ' Dear purse, fill this roomwith gold;' and when the eight days were up it was so full you could nothave put in another sovereign.

When the owner of the house came to take away his money Don Giovanniled him into the room and said: 'There, just pocket what you want.' Thegentleman stared with open mouth at the astonishing sight; but he hadgiven his word to sell the house, so he took his money, as he was told,and went away with his wife to look for some place to live in. And DonGiovanni left the inn and dwelt in the beautiful rooms, where his ragsand dirt looked sadly out of place. And every day these got worse and worse.

By-and-bye the fame of his riches reached the ears of the king, and, as he himself was always in need of money, he sent for Don Giovanni, as he wished to borrow a large sum. Don Giovanni readily agreed to lend himwhat he wanted, and sent next day a huge waggon laden with sacks ofgold.

'Who can he be?' thought the king to himself. 'Why, he is much richerthan I!'

The king took as much as he had need of; then ordered the rest to bereturned to Don Giovanni, who refused to receive it, saying, 'Tell hismajesty I am much hurt at his proposal. I shall certainly not takeback that handful of gold, and, if he declines to accept it, keep ityourself.'

The servant departed and delivered the message, and the king wonderedmore than ever how anyone could be so rich. At last he spoke to thequeen: 'Dear wife, this man has done me a great service, and has,besides, behaved like a gentleman in not allowing me to send back themoney. I wish to give him the hand of our eldest daughter.'

The queen was quite pleased at this idea, and again messenger was sentto Don Giovanni, offering him the hand of the eldest princess.

'His majesty is too good,' he replied. 'I can only humbly accept thehonour.'

The messenger took back this answer, but a second time returned with therequest that Don Giovanni would present them with his picture, so thatthey might know what sort of a person to expect. But when it came, andthe princess saw the horrible figure, she screamed out, 'What! marrythis dirty beggar? Never, never!'

'Ah, child,' answered the king, 'how could I ever guess that the richDon Giovanni would ever look like that? But I have passed my royal word,and I cannot break it, so there is no help for you.'

'No, father; you may cut off my head, if you choose, but marry thathorrible beggar--I never will!'

And the queen took her part, and reproached her husband bitterly forwishing his daughter to marry a creature like that.

Then the youngest daughter spoke: 'Dear father, do not look so sad. Asyou have given your word, I will marry Don Giovanni.' The king fell onher neck, and thanked her and kissed her, but the queen and the eldergirl had nothing for her but laughs and jeers.

So it was settled, and then the king bade one of his lords go toDon Giovanni and ask him when the wedding day was to be, so that theprincess might make ready.

'Let it be in two months,' answered Don Giovanni, for the time wasnearly up that the devil had fixed, and he wanted a whole month tohimself to wash off the dirt of the past three years.

The very minute that the compact with the devil had come to an end hisbeard was shaved, his hair was cut, and his rags were burned, and dayand night he lay in a bath of clear warm water. At length he felt he wasclean again, and he put on splendid clothes, and hired a beautiful ship,and arrived in state at the king's palace.

The whole of the royal family came down to the ship to receive him, andthe whole way the queen and the elder princess teased the sister aboutthe dirty husband she was going to have. But when they saw how handsomehe really was their hearts were filled with envy and anger, so thattheir eyes were blinded, and they fell over into the sea and weredrowned. And the youngest daughter rejoiced in the good luck that hadcome to her, and they had a splendid wedding when the days of mourningfor her mother and sister were ended.

Soon after the old king died, and Don Giovanni became king. And he wasrich and happy to the end of his days, for he loved his wife, and hispurse always gave him money.
