Dorothy, Betsy and Ozma (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)



  I suppose many of my readers have read descriptions of the beautiful  and magnificent Emerald City of Oz, so I need not describe it here,  except to state that never has any city in any fairyland ever equalled  this one in stately splendor. It lies almost exactly in the center of  the Land of Oz, and in the center of the Emerald City rises the wall of  glistening emeralds that surrounds the palace of Ozma. The palace is  almost a city in itself and is inhabited by many of the Ruler's  especial friends and those who have won her confidence and favor. As  for Ozma herself, there are no words in any dictionary I can find that  are fitted to describe this young girl's beauty of mind and person.  Merely to see her is to love her for her charming face and manners; to  know her is to love her for her tender sympathy, her generous nature,  her truth and honor. Born of a long line of Fairy Queens, Ozma is as  nearly perfect as any fairy may be, and she is noted for her wisdom as  well as for her other qualities. Her happy subjects adore their girl  Ruler and each one considers her a comrade and protector.

At the time of which I write, Ozma's best friend and most constant  companion was a little Kansas girl named Dorothy, a mortal who had come  to the Land of Oz in a very curious manner and had been offered a home  in Ozma's palace. Furthermore, Dorothy had been made a Princess of Oz,  and was as much at home in the royal palace as was the gentle Ruler.  She knew almost every part of the great country and almost all of its  numerous inhabitants. Next to Ozma she was loved better than anyone in  all Oz, for Dorothy was simple and sweet, seldom became angry and had  such a friendly, chummy way that she made friends where-ever she  wandered. It was she who first brought the Scarecrow and the Tin  Woodman and the Cowardly Lion to the Emerald City. Dorothy had also  introduced to Ozma the Shaggy Man and the Hungry Tiger, as well as  Billina the Yellow Hen, Eureka the Pink Kitten, and many other  delightful characters and creatures. Coming as she did from our world,  Dorothy was much like many other girls we know; so there were times  when she was not so wise as she might have been, and other times when  she was obstinate and got herself into trouble. But life in a  fairy-land had taught the little girl to accept all sorts of surprising  things as matters-of-course, for while Dorothy was no fairy--but just  as mortal as we are--she had seen more wonders than most mortals ever  do.

Another little girl from our outside world also lived in Ozma's palace.  This was Betsy Bobbin, whose strange adventures had brought her to the  Emerald City, where Ozma had cordially welcomed her. Betsy was a shy  little thing and could never get used to the marvels that surrounded  her, but she and Dorothy were firm friends and thought themselves very  fortunate in being together in this delightful country.

One day Dorothy and Betsy were visiting Ozma in the girl Ruler's  private apartment, and among the things that especially interested them  was Ozma's Magic Picture, set in a handsome frame and hung upon the  wall of the room. This picture was a magic one because it constantly  changed its scenes and showed events and adventures happening in all  parts of the world. Thus it was really a "moving picture" of life, and  if the one who stood before it wished to know what any absent person  was doing, the picture instantly showed that person, with his or her  surroundings.

The two girls were not wishing to see anyone in particular, on this  occasion, but merely enjoyed watching the shifting scenes, some of  which were exceedingly curious and remarkable. Suddenly Dorothy  exclaimed: "Why, there's Button-Bright!" and this drew Ozma also to  look at the picture, for she and Dorothy knew the boy well.

"Who is Button-Bright?" asked Betsy, who had never met him.

"Why, he's the little boy who is just getting off the back of that  strange flying creature," exclaimed Dorothy. Then she turned to Ozma  and asked: "What is that thing, Ozma? A bird? I've never seen anything  like it before."

"It is an Ork," answered Ozma, for they were watching the scene where  the Ork and the three big birds were first landing their passengers in  Jinxland after the long flight across the desert. "I wonder," added the  girl Ruler, musingly, "why those strangers dare venture into that  unfortunate country, which is ruled by a wicked King."

"That girl, and the one-legged man, seem to be mortals from the outside  world," said Dorothy.

"The man isn't one-legged," corrected Betsy; "he has one wooden leg."

"It's almost as bad," declared Dorothy, watching Cap'n Bill stump  around.

"They are three mortal adventurers," said Ozma, "and they seem worthy  and honest. But I fear they will be treated badly in Jinxland, and if  they meet with any misfortune there it will reflect upon me, for  Jinxland is a part of my dominions."

"Can't we help them in any way?" inquired Dorothy. "That seems like a  nice little girl. I'd be sorry if anything happened to her."

"Let us watch the picture for awhile," suggested Ozma, and so they all  drew chairs before the Magic Picture and followed the adventures of  Trot and Cap'n Bill and Button-Bright. Presently the scene shifted and  showed their friend the Scarecrow crossing the mountains into Jinxland,  and that somewhat relieved Ozma's anxiety, for she knew at once that  Glinda the Good had sent the Scarecrow to protect the strangers.

The adventures in Jinxland proved very interesting to the three girls  in Ozma's palace, who during the succeeding days spent much of their  time in watching the picture. It was like a story to them.

"That girl's a reg'lar trump!" exclaimed Dorothy, referring to Trot,  and Ozma answered:

"She's a dear little thing, and I'm sure nothing very bad will happen  to her. The old sailor is a fine character, too, for he has never once  grumbled over being a grasshopper, as so many would have done."

When the Scarecrow was so nearly burned up the girls all shivered a  little, and they clapped their hands in joy when the flock of Orks came  and saved him.

So it was that when all the exciting adventures in Jinxland were over  and the four Orks had begun their flight across the mountains to carry  the mortals into the Land of Oz, Ozma called the Wizard to her and  asked him to prepare a place for the strangers to sleep.

The famous Wizard of Oz was a quaint little man who inhabited the royal  palace and attended to all the magical things that Ozma wanted done. He  was not as powerful as Glinda, to be sure, but he could do a great many  wonderful things. He proved this by placing a house in the uninhabited  part of the Quadling Country where the Orks landed Cap'n Bill and Trot  and Button-Bright, and fitting it with all the comforts I have  described in the last chapter.

Next morning Dorothy said to Ozma:

"Oughtn't we to go meet the strangers, so we can show them the way to  the Emerald City? I'm sure that little girl will feel shy in this  beautiful land, and I know if 'twas me I'd like somebody to give me a  welcome."

Ozma smiled at her little friend and answered:

"You and Betsy may go to meet them, if you wish, but I can not leave my  palace just now, as I am to have a conference with Jack Pumpkinhead and  Professor Wogglebug on important matters. You may take the Sawhorse and  the Red Wagon, and if you start soon you will be able to meet the  Scarecrow and the strangers at Glinda's palace."

"Oh, thank you!" cried Dorothy, and went away to tell Betsy and to make  preparations for the journey.
