Dreamers of dreams (Fiction Ages 5 to 10)

August went out and September came in. Harvest was ended; and though  summer was not yet gone, her face was turned westering. The asters  lettered her retreating footsteps in a purple script, and over the hills  and valleys hung a faint blue smoke, as if Nature were worshipping at  her woodland altar. The apples began to burn red on the bending boughs;  crickets sang day and night; squirrels chattered secrets of Polichinelle  in the spruces; the sunshine was as thick and yellow as molten gold;  school opened, and we small denizens of the hill farms lived happy days  of harmless work and necessary play, closing in nights of peaceful,  undisturbed slumber under a roof watched over by autumnal stars.

At least, our slumbers were peaceful and undisturbed until our orgy of  dreaming began.

"I would really like to know what especial kind of deviltry you young  fry are up to this time," said Uncle Roger one evening, as he passed  through the orchard with his gun on his shoulder, bound for the swamp.

We were sitting in a circle before the Pulpit Stone, each writing  diligently in an exercise book, and eating the Rev. Mr. Scott's plums,  which always reached their prime of juicy, golden-green flesh and bloomy  blue skin in September. The Rev. Mr. Scott was dead and gone, but those  plums certainly kept his memory green, as his forgotten sermons could  never have done.

"Oh," said Felicity in a shocked tone, when Uncle Roger had passed by,  "Uncle Roger SWORE."

"Oh, no, he didn't," said the Story Girl quickly. "'Deviltry' isn't  swearing at all. It only means extra bad mischief."

"Well, it's not a very nice word, anyhow," said Felicity.

"No, it isn't," agreed the Story Girl with a regretful sigh. "It's  very expressive, but it isn't nice. That is the way with so many words.  They're expressive, but they're not nice, and so a girl can't use them."

The Story Girl sighed again. She loved expressive words, and treasured  them as some girls might have treasured jewels. To her, they were as  lustrous pearls, threaded on the crimson cord of a vivid fancy. When she  met with a new one she uttered it over and over to herself in solitude,  weighing it, caressing it, infusing it with the radiance of her voice,  making it her own in all its possibilities for ever.

"Well, anyhow, it isn't a suitable word in this case," insisted  Felicity. "We are not up to any dev--any extra bad mischief. Writing  down one's dreams isn't mischief at all."

Certainly it wasn't. Surely not even the straitest sect of the grown-ups  could call it so. If writing down your dreams, with agonizing care as  to composition and spelling--for who knew that the eyes of generations  unborn might not read the record?--were not a harmless amusement, could  anything be called so? I trow not.

We had been at it for a fortnight, and during that time we only lived to  have dreams and write them down. The Story Girl had originated the idea  one evening in the rustling, rain-wet ways of the spruce wood, where we  were picking gum after a day of showers. When we had picked enough, we  sat down on the moss-grown stones at the end of a long arcade, where it  opened out on the harvest-golden valley below us, our jaws exercising  themselves vigorously on the spoil of our climbings. We were never  allowed to chew gum in school or in company, but in wood and field,  orchard and hayloft, such rules were in abeyance.

"My Aunt Jane used to say it wasn't polite to chew gum anywhere," said  Peter rather ruefully.

"I don't suppose your Aunt Jane knew all the rules of etiquette," said  Felicity, designing to crush Peter with a big word, borrowed from the  _Family Guide_. But Peter was not to be so crushed. He had in him a  certain toughness of fibre, that would have been proof against a whole  dictionary.

"She did, too," he retorted. "My Aunt Jane was a real lady, even if she  was only a Craig. She knew all those rules and she kept them when there  was nobody round to see her, just the same as when any one was. And she  was smart. If father had had half her git-up-and-git I wouldn't be a  hired boy to-day."

"Have you any idea where your father is?" asked Dan.

"No," said Peter indifferently. "The last we heard of him he was in the  Maine lumber woods. But that was three years ago. I don't know where he  is now, and," added Peter deliberately, taking his gum from his mouth to  make his statement more impressive, "I don't care."

"Oh, Peter, that sounds dreadful," said Cecily. "Your own father!"

"Well," said Peter defiantly, "if your own father had run away when  you was a baby, and left your mother to earn her living by washing and  working out, I guess you wouldn't care much about him either."

"Perhaps your father may come home some of these days with a huge  fortune," suggested the Story Girl.

"Perhaps pigs may whistle, but they've poor mouths for it," was all the  answer Peter deigned to this charming suggestion.

"There goes Mr. Campbell down the road," said Dan. "That's his new mare.  Isn't she a dandy? She's got a skin like black satin. He calls her Betty  Sherman."

"I don't think it's very nice to call a horse after your own  grandmother," said Felicity.

"Betty Sherman would have thought it a compliment," said the Story Girl.

"Maybe she would. She couldn't have been very nice herself, or she would  never have gone and asked a man to marry her," said Felicity.

"Why not?"

"Goodness me, it was dreadful! Would YOU do such a thing yourself?"

"Well, I don't know," said the Story Girl, her eyes gleaming with impish  laughter. "If I wanted him DREADFULLY, and HE wouldn't do the asking,  perhaps I would."

"I'd rather die an old maid forty times over," exclaimed Felicity.

"Nobody as pretty as you will ever be an old maid, Felicity," said  Peter, who never put too fine an edge on his compliments.

Felicity tossed her golden tressed head and tried to look angry, but  made a dismal failure of it.

"It wouldn't be ladylike to ask any one to marry you, you know," argued  Cecily.

"I don't suppose the _Family Guide_ would think so," agreed the Story  Girl lazily, with some sarcasm in her voice. The Story Girl never held  the _Family Guide_ in such reverence as did Felicity and Cecily. They  pored over the "etiquette column" every week, and could have told you  on demand, just exactly what kind of gloves should be worn at a wedding,  what you should say when introducing or being introduced, and how you  ought to look when your best young man came to see you.

"They say Mrs. Richard Cook asked HER husband to marry her," said Dan.

"Uncle Roger says she didn't exactly ask him, but she helped the lame  dog over the stile so slick that Richard was engaged to her before he  knew what had happened to him," said the Story Girl. "I know a story  about Mrs. Richard Cook's grandmother. She was one of those women who  are always saying 'I told you so--'"

"Take notice, Felicity," said Dan aside.

"--And she was very stubborn. Soon after she was married she and  her husband quarrelled about an apple tree they had planted in their  orchard. The label was lost. He said it was a Fameuse and she declared  it was a Yellow Transparent. They fought over it till the neighbours  came out to listen. Finally he got so angry that he told her to shut up.  They didn't have any _Family Guide_ in those days, so he didn't know  it wasn't polite to say shut up to your wife. I suppose she thought she  would teach him manners, for would you believe it? That woman did shut  up, and never spoke one single word to her husband for five years. And  then, in five years' time, the tree bore apples, and they WERE Yellow  Transparents. And then she spoke at last. She said, 'I told you so.'"

"And did she talk to him after that as usual?" asked Sara Ray.

"Oh, yes, she was just the same as she used to be," said the Story Girl  wearily. "But that doesn't belong to the story. It stops when she spoke  at last. You're never satisfied to leave a story where it should stop,  Sara Ray."

"Well, I always like to know what happens afterwards," said Sara Ray.

"Uncle Roger says he wouldn't want a wife he could never quarrel with,"  remarked Dan. "He says it would be too tame a life for him."

"I wonder if Uncle Roger will always stay a bachelor," said Cecily.

"He seems real happy," observed Peter.

"Ma says that it's all right as long as he is a bachelor because he  won't take any one," said Felicity, "but if he wakes up some day and  finds he is an old bachelor because he can't get any one it'll have a  very different flavour."

"If your Aunt Olivia was to up and get married what would your Uncle  Roger do for a housekeeper?" asked Peter.

"Oh, but Aunt Olivia will never be married now," said Felicity. "Why,  she'll be twenty-nine next January."

"Well, o' course, that's pretty old," admitted Peter, "but she might  find some one who wouldn't mind that, seeing she's so pretty."

"It would be awful splendid and exciting to have a wedding in the  family, wouldn't it?" said Cecily. "I've never seen any one married,  and I'd just love to. I've been to four funerals, but not to one single  wedding."

"I've never even got to a funeral," said Sara Ray gloomily.

"There's the wedding veil of the proud princess," said Cecily, pointing  to a long drift of filmy vapour in the southwestern sky.

"And look at that sweet pink cloud below it," added Felicity.

"Maybe that little pink cloud is a dream, getting all ready to float  down into somebody's sleep," suggested the Story Girl.

"I had a perfectly awful dream last night," said Cecily, with a shudder  of remembrance. "I dreamed I was on a desert island inhabited by tigers  and natives with two heads."

"Oh!" the Story Girl looked at Cecily half reproachfully. "Why couldn't  you tell it better than that? If I had such a dream I could tell it so  that everybody else would feel as if they had dreamed it, too."

"Well, I'm not you," countered Cecily, "and I wouldn't want to frighten  any one as I was frightened. It was an awful dream--but it was kind of  interesting, too."

"I've had some real int'resting dreams," said Peter, "but I can't  remember them long. I wish I could."

"Why don't you write them down?" suggested the Story Girl. "Oh--" she  turned upon us a face illuminated with a sudden inspiration. "I've an  idea. Let us each get an exercise book and write down all our dreams,  just as we dream them. We'll see who'll have the most interesting  collection. And we'll have them to read and laugh over when we're old  and gray."

Instantly we all saw ourselves and each other by inner vision, old and  gray--all but the Story Girl. We could not picture her as old. Always,  as long as she lived, so it seemed to us, must she have sleek brown  curls, a voice like the sound of a harpstring in the wind, and eyes that  were stars of eternal youth.
