DRUMMING ON A LOG (Fables:- Ages 3 to 5)

  Turkey Proudfoot was not always content to stay in the farmyard.  Although Farmer Green fed him well, he liked to range over the fields in  search of extra tidbits, such as grain, seeds and insects. Sometimes he  wandered even as far as the pasture. And one day he strayed into the  edge of the woods beyond the pasture fence.

There he discovered a beech tree. And Turkey Proudfoot was enjoying the  nuts that he found on the ground beneath it when all at once a  _thump-thump-thump_ startled him. He raised his head and listened. The  thumping sound came faster and faster, then died away in a rumble.

"Ho! It's only Johnnie Green drumming. Probably his mother wouldn't let  him drum near the farmhouse, so he came to the woods where she couldn't  hear him."

Turkey Proudfoot paid no more heed to the drumming, which rolled through  the woods now and then. He went on with his search for beechnuts. But at  last a thought popped into his head. "Johnnie Green must be eating most  of the time, or he'd drum oftener," Turkey Proudfoot muttered. "He must  have found a beech tree."

Soon Turkey Proudfoot decided to join Johnnie Green. He hoped that  beechnuts were more plentiful beneath Johnnie's tree. So Turkey  Proudfoot picked his way slowly through the underbrush. And guided by  the _thump-thump-thump_ which once in a while boomed upon his ears, at  last Turkey Proudfoot came into a little clearing.

There on a log sat a speckly, feathered, short-necked gentleman with a  tail spread in much the fashion in which Turkey Proudfoot so often  carried his own.

Turkey Proudfoot drew back behind a bush, out of sight.

"I'll show that bird a tail that _is_ a tail," he muttered to himself.  So he spread his tail and then stepped proudly forth. A dry twig snapped  beneath his weight. At that sound the stranger on the log turned his  head quickly. Just for an instant there was an eager look on his face.  But when he beheld Turkey Proudfoot it changed to one of  disappointment.

"Who are you?" the stranger asked in none too pleasant a tone.

"I'm Turkey Proudfoot," said the ruler of the farmyard. "I live down the  hill at Farmer Green's place."

"Then you'd better go home where you belong," said the stranger on the  log. "I was expecting some one. I've been drumming for a friend. And  when I heard you step on that dry twig I thought she'd come. I had my  tail spread in her honor."

"Drum again!" Turkey Proudfoot ordered. "Call your friend at once and  I'll show her a tail that is a tail. Yours is no bigger than Mrs.  Green's fan."

The stranger made no move to obey. He appeared somewhat sulky.

"What's your name?" Turkey Proudfoot demanded.

"I'm Mr. Grouse," the stranger snapped out. "I supposed everybody in  Pleasant Valley knew me. My drumming is famous."

"Indeed!" said Turkey Proudfoot. "I thought it was Johnnie Green making  that noise."

"No wonder!" Mr. Grouse sniffed. "You're only a barnyard fowl. You can't  be expected to know anything about us game birds."
