DUSTY'S DIFFICULTY (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

IT was to be expected that as time went on, Betsy Butterfly's fame wouldspread far and wide. And long before the summer was over, half thecreatures that lived in Pleasant Valley knew her. They were the onesthat went about by daylight and rested at night.

As for the other half--the night-prowlers--many of them had heard aboutthe beautiful Betsy, though of course they had never seen her. That is,none of them had set eyes on her except Freddie Firefly, who had flashedhis light upon Betsy all one night, because Mrs. Ladybug had a strangenotion that she was stealing butter from the farmhouse.

In fact, after that happened, Freddie Firefly had gone about telling allhis friends how beautiful Betsy Butterfly was, and saying what a pity itwas that she didn't like moonlight as well as sunshine.

He talked so much about her that at last a good many of thenight-prowling people said that they wished they might see BetsyButterfly just once, for they could scarcely believe that anybodycould be as dainty and bewitching as Freddie Firefly would havethem believe her.

And there was one dashing young chap of the Moth family who becameespecially eager to make Betsy's acquaintance. Indeed, he began tocomplain that he was losing his appetite, through thinking about BetsyButterfly. So he besought Freddie Firefly to help him out of hisdifficulty.

Now, while he was talking with Freddie Firefly, this young Moth, who wasknown as Dusty, never once stopped eating. Freddie Firefly noticed howhis fat sides stuck out.

And he wondered what the fellow's appetite could have been like beforehe lost some of it.

"You don't act like one in delicate health," Freddie Firefly observed,as he watched the greedy Dusty consume more food.

"Oh, but I am!" Dusty Moth protested feebly. "I'm so weak now that I canhardly raise myself with my wings."

Freddie was sure that Dusty's trouble was merely due to his being toofat. But he saw no reason for quarreling with him.

"Can't you think of some plan by which I could meet Betsy Butterfly?"Dusty Moth persisted. "Perhaps if I could see her just once I'd be ableto get my mind _off_ her--and _on_ my meals again."

"I don't know how I can help you," Freddie Firefly confessed. "You see,Betsy goes home exactly at sunset. And at present she never seems tomake her home in the same place for even two nights. So one can never besure where she will be.

"Of course, when the sun is shining you can always find her among theflowers. But that won't help you any, because you're such a sleepy-headin the daytime that you couldn't see anything even if it was stuck rightinto your eyes."

"Can't you explain my sad case to Betsy Butterfly?" Dusty Moth askedhopefully. "I've heard that she's very kind-hearted. And if she knew howI'm suffering on her account I'm sure she'd be glad to meet me somepleasant, dark night."

He begged so piteously that in the end Freddie Firefly agreed to do whathe could.

"But I warn you--" he said--"I warn you that I can't give you muchhope."
