Eating a Tree (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  AS SIMON SCREECHER remarked to his cousin, Solomon Owl, it was a hard  winter. The snow was deep. The days were cold. And the nights were  colder. And, worst of all, food became scarce. It seemed as if there  wasn't anything to eat anywhere except at the farm buildings, which  Farmer Green had stuffed full of hay and grain during the summer and  autumn. Many of the forest folk stole down from Blue Mountain after  nightfall and visited the farmyard in the hope of getting a bite of  something or other.

Even Master Meadow Mouse began to find it harder and harder to get  enough seeds under the snow to satisfy his hunger. He had stored away a  stock of food. But it hadn't been big enough. And that was a great  mistake. Master Meadow Mouse promised himself that he would not repeat  it another time. Unfortunately, all the promises in the world wouldn't  give him a square meal when he needed one.

At last he went to one of his cousins who had already spent one winter  in the meadow.

"This is my first winter," Master Meadow Mouse explained. "I'm running  short of food. And I wish you'd tell me what to do in such a case."

"That's easy," his cousin answered. "Get more!" And then he hurried  away, for he had important business to attend to.

Poor Master Meadow Mouse ran after him. It was hard to follow his  cousin through the winding galleries beneath the snow. Several times  Master Meadow Mouse took the wrong turn and had to retrace his steps.  But at last he found his busy cousin again.

"You advised me to get more food," said Master Meadow Mouse. "But you  didn't tell me where to get it."

"In the orchard!" his cousin cried. And then he hurried away again.

"I wish he'd wait a minute," Master Meadow Mouse grumbled as he tore  after his cousin once more. "I don't feel like running. I haven't had a  hearty meal for days."

The cousin seemed surprised when Master Meadow Mouse overtook him.

"What!" that busy gentleman exclaimed. "Have you been to the orchard and  back so soon?"

"No!" said Master Meadow Mouse. "I've been chasing you. I want you to  tell me what I'll find to eat when I go to the orchard."

"That's easy," his cousin replied. "Trees!" Having said those three  words he dashed off again even faster than before.

"Trees!" Master Meadow Mouse echoed. "I can't eat trees. I've never  eaten a tree in all my life. There must be something that my cousin  forgot to explain. So I suppose I'll have to run after him again and ask  him what he meant."

The fourth time that Master Meadow Mouse found his cousin he took no  chances. He caught his cousin by his tail and held on firmly.

"You're not going to get away from me till I've found out what I want  to know," he declared. "How can I eat a tree?" Master Meadow Mouse  demanded.

"You can't!" his cousin replied, struggling desperately to free himself,  for he was too busy to stop long.

"Then explain what you mean!" Master Meadow Mouse cried.

"Eat the bark!" his cousin answered.

Then--and not till then--did Master Meadow Mouse let him go.

Master Meadow Mouse chased his cousin no more, but hurried away to  Farmer Green's orchard, where he gnawed a ring all the way around one of  the young fruit trees, at the top of the snow. It was the first big meal  he had enjoyed for weeks. And he went home feeling that the winter was  not so hard as he had thought, after all.

But Farmer Green didn't agree with him. When he happened to go into the  orchard one day, later, and saw tree after tree ruined, he was very,  very much displeased.

"I ought to have put wire netting around those young trees," he told the  hired man. "This is what comes of a hard winter."

[Illustration]



  [Illustration]
