EBENEZER'S RECORD (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  The old horse Ebenezer had beaten Twinkleheels in the race to the bars.  While Johnnie Green slipped their halters on them, and they munched the  oats that he gave them, neither of them spoke. Johnnie mounted Ebenezer  bareback; and leading Twinkleheels, he turned down the lane.

"You're not as slow as I thought you were," Twinkleheels said to  Ebenezer as they drew near the barn. "And somehow I couldn't seem to get  to running smoothly. I'd like to race you again. I think I could beat  you next time."

"Perhaps you could," said Ebenezer. "I don't often run nowadays. But I  did running enough when I was younger. I used to race at the county  fair, every fall."

"Did you ever win a race at the fair?" Twinkleheels inquired.

"Yes!" Ebenezer answered. "Yes! I can remember winning a race now and  then."

"He never lost a race in his whole life!" cried the Muley Cow, who was  walking just ahead of them. "Ebenezer used to be known as the fastest  horse in these parts. He had a record."

Twinkleheels gasped. "A record!" he exclaimed. "What's that?"

"I don't know, exactly," said the Muley Cow. "I never saw Ebenezer's.  But it must have been a fine one, for Farmer Green was always talking  about it."

"A horse's record," Ebenezer explained, "is the fastest time he ever  makes in a race." Then he added, to Twinkleheels: "You and I will have  another race the next time we're in the pasture together."

Twinkleheels gave him an odd look. Somehow Ebenezer did not seem just a  poky old farm horse, as Twinkleheels had always regarded him. For the  first time Twinkleheels noticed that Ebenezer had many good points.  There wasn't a single bunch on his legs. And his muscles showed plainly  as they rippled on his lean frame beneath a coat that was both short and  fine.

"I don't believe I could beat you if we raced a hundred times,"  Twinkleheels blurted.

"Of course you couldn't!" the Muley Cow interrupted again.

"Oh, you might," Ebenezer said. "There'd be no harm in trying, anyhow.  Racing with me would be good practice for you, even if I did win. If  you're going to have a race, don't look for an easy one! Choose a hard  one. That's the kind that will make you do your best."

Twinkleheels thanked him.

"It's very kind of Ebenezer to race with you," the Muley Cow bellowed.  "You ought to feel honored."

"I do," said Twinkleheels. "But please don't talk so loud! I don't want  everybody on the farm laughing at me because I lost a race."

The Muley Cow went into the barn grumbling.

"That pony is a young upstart," she muttered. "The idea of his telling  me not to talk so loud! Ebenezer is altogether too pleasant to him."

Old Ebenezer continued to be agreeable to Twinkleheels. They often raced  in the pasture, later. And though Twinkleheels never won once, he  enjoyed the sport.

And he never called Ebenezer "poky" again.
