ENEMIES (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  JASPER JAY was not the only bird that liked beechnuts. Reddy Woodpecker  was fond of them, too. And when he saw that the beechnut crop was going  to be a big one he decided that he would stay in Pleasant Valley all  winter.

Jasper and Reddy were not unlike in some other respects, too. Both were  noisy, quarrelsome ruffians, who did not hesitate to steal and devour  the eggs and young of other birds. Furthermore, both of them were  gay-colored--but in a very different way. Jasper Jay always wore a  brilliant blue suit, while Reddy Woodpecker made himself easily seen by  donning a bright red cap, which came down to his shoulders and gave him  an odd look. Being so much alike (as far as manners were concerned), the  two quarreled whenever they met. And when Jasper Jay heard that Reddy  had made up his mind to spend the winter in the North he was furious.

"It's an outrage!" he declared to Jimmy Rabbit, who had told him about  Reddy Woodpecker's plan. "He needn't think he can stay in this  neighborhood and eat most of the nuts--for I know him and I know what he  expects to do."

Jimmy Rabbit saw at once that there was going to be some fun--for him.  And he didn't want to miss any of it.

"I suppose----" he said to Jasper--"I suppose you'd like to drive Reddy  Woodpecker away from Pleasant Valley?"

Jasper laughed hoarsely.

"I'd not only _like_ to--I'm _going_ to!" he said.

"How do you intend to do it?" Jimmy asked him.

"I'll have to think a while before I decide," Jasper Jay replied.

"You'll find it pretty difficult," Jimmy Rabbit said. "Let me arrange  the matter for you! I'll promise you to put Reddy Woodpecker where he  can't eat any beechnuts. And so long as I do that for you, I suppose you  don't care what happens."

"Certainly not!" said Jasper Jay. "Though, of course, if you could  arrange things so I didn't have to _see_ Reddy I'd like that. His red  cap is hideous. It's enough to make anybody ill, just to see it."

"I think I can please you," said Jimmy Rabbit. "But you'll have to do  exactly as I say, or my plan won't work."

Now, Jasper Jay was really not at all eager to fight Reddy Woodpecker.  Reddy had a very sharp bill, which was even longer than Jasper's, and  just as strong. And Reddy could strike a powerful blow with his bill. So  Jasper Jay was glad enough to accept help from a person like Jimmy  Rabbit, who was always thinking of new schemes.

"I'll leave everything to you," said Jasper.

"Good!" cried Jimmy Rabbit. "And now you must wait right where I tell  you to, while I go to find Reddy Woodpecker. Follow me!" he ordered.

And Jasper Jay followed him, while Jimmy skipped briskly through the  woods. He appeared to be looking for something. And at last he seemed to  have found it, in a swampy hollow where water stood here and there in  pools. Anyhow, he stopped beside a cedar tree and said to Jasper Jay:

"You must stand beside this tree; and you mustn't stir out of your  tracks."

Jimmy Rabbit pointed out the exact spot where he wanted Jasper Jay to  station himself. And since it happened that there was a puddle of water  there, it was only to be expected that Jasper Jay should begin to  grumble.
