ENOUGH! (Fable:- Ages 3 to 5)

  "SUCH impudence!" Mrs. Ladybug gasped, as soon as she could speak. "That  terrible Jennie Junebug didn't care whether I ever got my breath or  not."

After bowling Mrs. Ladybug over three times, Miss Junebug had flown  away, leaving poor little Mrs. Ladybug clinging to a blade of grass and  wondering if she would be able to move again.

Mrs. Ladybug had attempted to take Jennie Junebug to task. She had  intended to berate Jennie for devouring the leaves of Farmer Green's  trees and to order her to stop such damage at once. But Jennie Junebug  hadn't allowed her to say much. In her playful way she had knocked the  breath out of Mrs. Ladybug.

"I must try some other plan," thought Mrs. Ladybug. "And I'll have to  have help." So she sent Miss Moth over to the meadow, to find Freddie  Firefly and ask him if he wouldn't come to the orchard because Mrs.  Ladybug wanted to talk with him.

He came. He came at once; for he saw Jennie Junebug looking for him. And  he was only too glad to escape her attentions. He found her too rough to  suit him.

Mrs. Ladybug quickly explained her difficulty.

"What shall I do?" she asked him.

"I don't know," he answered. "I can't do a thing with Jennie Junebug.  She knocks me down whenever I meet her. She annoys me."

"It's not so much myself I'm thinking of," said Mrs. Ladybug. "It's  Farmer Green's fruit trees that I'm disturbed about. Jennie Junebug eats  the leaves. I must put an end to that."

"I have it!" Freddie Firefly exclaimed suddenly. "I'll ask her why she  doesn't bump into Solomon Owl!"

Mrs. Ladybug didn't seem to care for his suggestion. "What good would  that do?" she inquired.

"Ah!" he said. "Solomon Owl wouldn't let her browbeat him. He'd soon  cure her of her rude pranks."

"Then please speak to her, and to Solomon Owl at once--that is, if you  dare to," said Mrs. Ladybug.

"I'm not afraid of him," Freddie Firefly boasted. "He won't touch me.  He's a-scared of my light." And then Freddie Firefly flitted away.

He found Solomon Owl easily enough. He had heard Solomon's _Wha-wha_,  _whoo-ah_! booming from the edge of the woods. And he soon persuaded  Solomon to fly down into the meadow.

Solomon Owl sailed above the waving grass, while Freddie Firefly spoke  to Jennie Junebug.

She liked his scheme. She thought it would be a great joke to bump into  solemn Solomon Owl. And for once she forgot to fling herself against  Freddie Firefly.

Only a little while later she struck Solomon Owl with an awful thud. To  her huge surprise she fell headlong, while he merely paused in his low  flight.

"Who struck me?" he bawled.

"Jennie Junebug!" said Freddie Firefly.

"Where is she now?" Solomon hooted. "If I find her I'll fix her."

Jennie Junebug heard everything he said. She was lying hidden in the  grass near-by. And she wouldn't have come out for anything.

"I'll keep an eye out for her," Solomon Owl announced. "I come to the  meadow often, a-mousing."

Jennie Junebug kept still as a mouse, herself, until Solomon had gone  back to the woods. Then she stole forth from her hiding place, showing a  battered face to her friends.

"Good-by, everybody!" she called. "I'm going to move. I'm going 'way  down to the end of the valley to live.... I'm off already," she added,  as she spread her wings.

Nobody ever saw Jennie Junebug on Farmer Green's place again.

And Mrs. Ladybug was more than satisfied.
