Epilogue (Fiction, Ages:- 6 to 10)



THUS END the Merry Adventures of Robin Hood; for, in spite of hispromise, it was many a year ere he saw Sherwood again.

After a year or two at court Little John came back to Nottinghamshire,where he lived in an orderly way, though within sight of Sherwood, andwhere he achieved great fame as the champion of all England with thequarterstaff.Will Scarlet after a time came back to his own home,whence he had been driven by his unlucky killing of his father'ssteward. The rest of the band did their duty as royal rangers rightwell. But Robin Hood and Allan a Dale did not come again to Sherwood soquickly, for thus it was:

Robin, through his great fame as an archer, became a favorite with theKing, so that he speedily rose in rank to be the chief of all theyeomen. At last the King, seeing how faithful and how loyal he was,created him Earl of Huntingdon; so Robin followed the King to the wars,and found his time so full that he had no chance to come back toSherwood for even so much as a day.As for Allan a Dale and his wife,the fair Ellen, they followed Robin Hood and shared in all his ups anddowns of life.

And now, dear friend, you who have journeyed with me in all these merrydoings, I will not bid you follow me further, but will drop your handhere with a "good den," if you wish it; for that which cometh hereafterspeaks of the breaking up of things, and shows how joys and pleasuresthat are dead and gone can never be set upon their feet to walk again. Iwill not dwell upon the matter overlong, but will tell as speedily asmay be of how that stout fellow, Robin Hood, died as he had lived, notat court as Earl of Huntingdon, but with bow in hand, his heart in thegreenwood, and he himself a right yeoman.

King Richard died upon the battlefield, in such a way as properly becamea lion-hearted king, as you yourself, no doubt, know; so, after a time,the Earl of Huntingdon--or Robin Hood, as we still call him as of old--finding nothing for his doing abroad, came back to merry England again.With him came Allan a Dale and his wife, the fair Ellen, for these twohad been chief of Robin's household ever since he had left SherwoodForest.

It was in the springtime when they landed once more on the shores ofEngland.The leaves were green and the small birds sang blithely, justas they used to do in fair Sherwood when Robin Hood roamed the woodlandshades with a free heart and a light heel. All the sweetness of the timeand the joyousness of everything brought back to Robin's mind his forestlife, so that a great longing came upon him to behold the woodlands oncemore. So he went straightway to King John and besought leave of him tovisit Nottingham for a short season.The King gave him leave to comeand to go, but bade him not stay longer than three days at Sherwood.SoRobin Hood and Allan a Dale set forth without delay to Nottinghamshireand Sherwood Forest.

The first night they took up their inn at Nottingham Town, yet they didnot go to pay their duty to the Sheriff, for his worship bore many abitter grudge against Robin Hood, which grudges had not been lessened byRobin's rise in the world. The next day at an early hour they mountedtheir horses and set forth for the woodlands.As they passed along theroad it seemed to Robin that he knew every stick and stone that his eyeslooked upon. Yonder was a path that he had ofttimes trod of a mellowevening, with Little John beside him; here was one, now nigh choked withbrambles, along which he and a little band had walked when they wentforth to seek a certain curtal friar.

Thus they rode slowly onward, talking about these old, familiar things;old and yet new, for they found more in them than they had ever thoughtof before.Thus at last they came to the open glade, and the broad,wide-spreading greenwood tree which was their home for so many years.Neither of the two spoke when they stood beneath that tree. Robin lookedall about him at the well-known things, so like what they used to be andyet so different; for, where once was the bustle of many busy fellowswas now the quietness of solitude; and, as he looked, the woodlands, thegreensward, and the sky all blurred together in his sight through salttears, for such a great yearning came upon him as he looked on thesethings (as well known to him as the fingers of his right hand) that hecould not keep back the water from his eyes.

That morning he had slung his good old bugle horn over his shoulder, andnow, with the yearning, came a great longing to sound his bugle oncemore. He raised it to his lips; he blew a blast."Tirila, lirila," thesweet, clear notes went winding down the forest paths, coming back againfrom the more distant bosky shades in faint echoes of sound, "Tirila,lirila, tirila, lirila," until it faded away and was lost.

Now it chanced that on that very morn Little John was walking through aspur of the forest upon certain matters of business, and as he pacedalong, sunk in meditation, the faint, clear notes of a distant buglehorn came to his ear. As leaps the stag when it feels the arrow at itsheart, so leaped Little John when that distant sound met his ear. Allthe blood in his body seemed to rush like a flame into his cheeks as hebent his head and listened.Again came the bugle note, thin and clear,and yet again it sounded. Then Little John gave a great, wild cry ofyearning, of joy, and yet of grief, and, putting down his head, hedashed into the thicket. Onward he plunged, crackling and rending, asthe wild boar rushes through the underbrush.Little recked he of thornsand briers that scratched his flesh and tore his clothing, for all hethought of was to get, by the shortest way, to the greenwood gladewhence he knew the sound of the bugle horn came.Out he burst from thecovert, at last, a shower of little broken twigs falling about him, and,without pausing a moment, rushed forward and flung himself at Robin'sfeet. Then he clasped his arms around the master's knees, and all hisbody was shaken with great sobs; neither could Robin nor Allan a Dalespeak, but stood looking down at Little John, the tears rolling downtheir cheeks.

While they thus stood, seven royal rangers rushed into the open gladeand raised a great shout of joy at the sight of Robin; and at their headwas Will Stutely.Then, after a while, came four more, panting withtheir running, and two of these four were Will Scathelock and Midge, theMiller; for all of these had heard the sound of Robin Hood's horn. Allthese ran to Robin and kissed his hands and his clothing, with greatsound of weeping.

After a while Robin looked around him with tear-dimmed eyes and said, ina husky voice, "Now, I swear that never again will I leave these dearwoodlands.I have been away from them and from you too long. Now do Ilay by the name of Robert, Earl of Huntingdon, and take upon me onceagain that nobler title, Robin Hood, the Yeoman."At this a great shoutwent up, and all the yeomen shook one another's hands for joy.

The news that Robin Hood had come back again to dwell in Sherwood as ofold spread like wildfire all over the countryside, so that ere ase'ennight had passed nearly all of his old yeomen had gathered abouthim again. But when the news of all this reached the ears of King John,he swore both loud and deep, and took a solemn vow that he would notrest until he had Robin Hood in his power, dead or alive. Now there waspresent at court a certain knight, Sir William Dale, as gallant asoldier as ever donned harness.Sir William Dale was well acquaintedwith Sherwood Forest, for he was head keeper over that part of it thatlay nigh to good Mansfield Town; so to him the King turned, and bade himtake an army of men and go straightway to seek Robin Hood.Likewise theKing gave Sir William his signet ring to show to the Sheriff, that hemight raise all his armed men to aid the others in their chase of Robin.So Sir William and the Sheriff set forth to do the King's bidding and tosearch for Robin Hood; and for seven days they hunted up and down, yetfound him not.

Now, had Robin Hood been as peaceful as of old, everything might haveended in smoke, as other such ventures had always done before; but hehad fought for years under King Richard, and was changed from what heused to be. It galled his pride to thus flee away before those sentagainst him, as a chased fox flees from the hounds; so thus it cameabout, at last, that Robin Hood and his yeomen met Sir William and theSheriff and their men in the forest, and a bloody fight followed.Thefirst man slain in that fight was the Sheriff of Nottingham, for he fellfrom his horse with an arrow in his brain ere half a score of shafts hadbeen sped. Many a better man than the Sheriff kissed the sod that day,but at last, Sir William Dale being wounded and most of his men slain,he withdrew, beaten, and left the forest.But scores of good fellowswere left behind him, stretched out all stiff beneath the sweet greenboughs.

But though Robin Hood had beaten off his enemies in fair fight, all thislay heavily upon his mind, so that he brooded over it until a feverseized upon him.For three days it held him, and though he strove tofight it off, he was forced to yield at last. Thus it came that, on themorning of the fourth day, he called Little John to him, and told himthat he could not shake the fever from him, and that he would go to hiscousin, the prioress of the nunnery near Kirklees, in Yorkshire, who wasa skillful leech, and he would have her open a vein in his arm and takea little blood from him, for the bettering of his health.Then he badeLittle John make ready to go also, for he might perchance need aid inhis journeying. So Little John and he took their leave of the others,and Robin Hood bade Will Stutely be the captain of the band until theyshould come back. Thus they came by easy stages and slow journeyinguntil they reached the Nunnery of Kirklees.

Now Robin had done much to aid this cousin of his; for it was throughKing Richard's love of him that she had been made prioress of the place.But there is nought in the world so easily forgot as gratitude; so, whenthe Prioress of Kirklees had heard how her cousin, the Earl ofHuntingdon, had thrown away his earldom and gone back again to Sherwood,she was vexed to the soul, and feared lest her cousinship with himshould bring the King's wrath upon her also. Thus it happened that whenRobin came to her and told her how he wished her services as leech, shebegan plotting ill against him in her mind, thinking that by doing evilto him she might find favor with his enemies. Nevertheless, she keptthis well to herself and received Robin with seeming kindness.She ledhim up the winding stone stair to a room which was just beneath theeaves of a high, round tower; but she would not let Little John comewith him.

So the poor yeoman turned his feet away from the door of the nunnery,and left his master in the hands of the women. But, though he did notcome in, neither did he go far away; for he laid him down in a littleglade near by, where he could watch the place that Robin abided, likesome great, faithful dog turned away from the door where his master hasentered.

After the women had gotten Robin Hood to the room beneath the eaves, thePrioress sent all of the others away; then, taking a little cord, shetied it tightly about Robin's arm, as though she were about to bleedhim.And so she did bleed him, but the vein she opened was not one ofthose that lie close and blue beneath the skin; deeper she cut thanthat, for she opened one of those veins through which the bright redblood runs leaping from the heart. Of this Robin knew not; for, thoughhe saw the blood flow, it did not come fast enough to make him thinkthat there was anything ill in it.

Having done this vile deed, the Prioress turned and left her cousin,locking the door behind her.All that livelong day the blood ran fromRobin Hood's arm, nor could he check it, though he strove in every wayto do so.Again and again he called for help, but no help came, for hiscousin had betrayed him, and Little John was too far away to hear hisvoice. So he bled and bled until he felt his strength slipping away fromhim. Then he arose, tottering, and bearing himself up by the palms ofhis hands against the wall, he reached his bugle horn at last. Thrice hesounded it, but weakly and faintly, for his breath was flutteringthrough sickness and loss of strength; nevertheless, Little John heardit where he lay in the glade, and, with a heart all sick with dread, hecame running and leaping toward the nunnery.Loudly he knocked at thedoor, and in a loud voice shouted for them to let him in, but the doorwas of massive oak, strongly barred, and studded with spikes, so theyfelt safe, and bade Little John begone.

Then Little John's heart was mad with grief and fear for his master'slife. Wildly he looked about him, and his sight fell upon a heavy stonemortar, such as three men could not lift nowadays.Little John tookthree steps forward, and, bending his back, heaved the stone mortar upfrom where it stood deeply rooted.Staggering under its weight, he cameforward and hurled it crashing against the door.In burst the door, andaway fled the frightened nuns, shrieking, at his coming. Then LittleJohn strode in, and never a word said he, but up the winding stone stepshe ran till he reached the room wherein his master was. Here he foundthe door locked also, but, putting his shoulder against it, he burst thelocks as though they were made of brittle ice.

There he saw his own dear master leaning against the gray stone wall,his face all white and drawn, and his head swaying to and fro withweakness.Then, with a great, wild cry of love and grief and pity,Little John leaped forward and caught Robin Hood in his arms. Up helifted him as a mother lifts her child, and carrying him to the bed,laid him tenderly thereon.

And now the Prioress came in hastily, for she was frightened at what shehad done, and dreaded the vengeance of Little John and the others of theband; then she stanched the blood by cunning bandages, so that it flowedno more. All the while Little John stood grimly by, and after she haddone he sternly bade her to begone, and she obeyed, pale and trembling.Then, after she had departed, Little John spake cheering words, laughingloudly, and saying that all this was a child's fright, and that no stoutyeoman would die at the loss of a few drops of blood. "Why," quoth he,"give thee a se'ennight and thou wilt be roaming the woodlands as boldlyas ever."

But Robin shook his head and smiled faintly where he lay. "Mine own dearLittle John," whispered he, "Heaven bless thy kind, rough heart.But,dear friend, we will never roam the woodlands together again."

"Ay, but we will!" quoth Little John loudly."I say again, ay--out uponit--who dares say that any more harm shall come upon thee?Am I not by?Let me see who dares touch"--Here he stopped of a sudden, for his wordschoked him. At last he said, in a deep, husky voice, "Now, if aught ofharm befalls thee because of this day's doings, I swear by Saint Georgethat the red cock shall crow over the rooftree of this house, for thehot flames shall lick every crack and cranny thereof.As for thesewomen"--here he ground his teeth--"it will be an ill day for them!"

But Robin Hood took Little John's rough, brown fist in his white hands,and chid him softly in his low, weak voice, asking him since what timeLittle John had thought of doing harm to women, even in vengeance. Thushe talked till, at last, the other promised, in a choking voice, that noill should fall upon the place, no matter what happened. Then a silencefell, and Little John sat with Robin Hood's hand in his, gazing out ofthe open window, ever and anon swallowing a great lump that came in histhroat.Meantime the sun dropped slowly to the west, till all the skywas ablaze with a red glory. Then Robin Hood, in a weak, falteringvoice, bade Little John raise him that he might look out once more uponthe woodlands; so the yeoman lifted him in his arms, as he bade, andRobin Hood's head lay on his friend's shoulder.Long he gazed, with awide, lingering look, while the other sat with bowed head, the hot tearsrolling one after another from his eyes, and dripping upon his bosom,for he felt that the time of parting was near at hand. Then, presently,Robin Hood bade him string his stout bow for him, and choose a smoothfair arrow from his quiver.This Little John did, though withoutdisturbing his master or rising from where he sat. Robin Hood's fingerswrapped lovingly around his good bow, and he smiled faintly when he feltit in his grasp, then he nocked the arrow on that part of the stringthat the tips of his fingers knew so well. "Little John," said he,"Little John, mine own dear friend, and him I love better than allothers in the world, mark, I prythee, where this arrow lodges, and therelet my grave be digged. Lay me with my face toward the East, LittleJohn, and see that my resting place be kept green, and that my wearybones be not disturbed."

As he finished speaking, he raised himself of a sudden and sat upright.His old strength seemed to come back to him, and, drawing the bowstringto his ear, he sped the arrow out of the open casement.As the shaftflew, his hand sank slowly with the bow till it lay across his knees,and his body likewise sank back again into Little John's loving arms;but something had sped from that body, even as the winged arrow spedfrom the bow.

For some minutes Little John sat motionless, but presently he laid thatwhich he held gently down, then, folding the hands upon the breast andcovering up the face, he turned upon his heel and left the room withouta word or a sound.

Upon the steep stairway he met the Prioress and some of the chief amongthe sisters.To them he spoke in a deep, quivering voice, and said he,"An ye go within a score of feet of yonder room, I will tear down yourrookery over your heads so that not one stone shall be left uponanother.Bear my words well in mind, for I mean them." So saying, heturned and left them, and they presently saw him running rapidly acrossthe open, through the falling of the dusk, until he was swallowed up bythe forest.

The early gray of the coming morn was just beginning to lighten theblack sky toward the eastward when Little John and six more of the bandcame rapidly across the open toward the nunnery. They saw no one, forthe sisters were all hidden away from sight, having been frightened byLittle John's words. Up the stone stair they ran, and a great sound ofweeping was presently heard.After a while this ceased, and then camethe scuffling and shuffling of men's feet as they carried a heavy weightdown the steep and winding stairs. So they went forth from the nunnery,and, as they passed through the doors thereof, a great, loud sound ofwailing arose from the glade that lay all dark in the dawning, as thoughmany men, hidden in the shadows, had lifted up their voices in sorrow.

Thus died Robin Hood, at Kirklees Nunnery, in fair Yorkshire, with mercyin his heart toward those that had been his undoing; for thus he showedmercy for the erring and pity for the weak through all the time of hisliving.

His yeomen were scattered henceforth, but no great ill befell themthereafter, for a more merciful sheriff and one who knew them not sowell succeeding the one that had gone, and they being separated here andthere throughout the countryside, they abided in peace and quietness, sothat many lived to hand down these tales to their children and theirchildren's children.

A certain one sayeth that upon a stone at Kirklees is an oldinscription. This I give in the ancient English in which it was written,and thus it runs:
