Esben and the Witch (Fiction:- Ages 3 to 5)



From the Danish.

There was once a man who had twelve sons: the eleven eldest were bothbig and strong, but the twelfth, whose name was Esben, was only alittle fellow. The eleven eldest went out with their father to field andforest, but Esben preferred to stay at home with his mother, and so hewas never reckoned at all by the rest, but was a sort of outcast amongthem.

When the eleven had grown up to be men they decided to go out into theworld to try their fortune, and they plagued their father to give themwhat they required for the journey. The father was not much in favourof this, for he was now old and weak, and could not well spare them fromhelping him with his work, but in the long run he had to give in. Eachone of the eleven got a fine white horse and money for the journey, andso they said farewell to their father and their home, and rode away.

As for Esben, no one had ever thought about him; his brothers had noteven said farewell to him.

After the eleven were gone Esben went to his father and said, 'Father,give me also a horse and money; I should also like to see round about mein the world.'

'You are a little fool,' said his father. 'If I could have let you go,and kept your eleven brothers at home, it would have been better for mein my old age.'

'Well, you will soon be rid of me at any rate,' said Esben.

As he could get no other horse, he went into the forest, broke off abranch, stripped the bark off it, so that it became still whiter thanhis brothers' horses, and, mounted on this. rode off after his elevenbrothers.

The brothers rode on the whole day, and towards evening they came toa great forest, which they entered. Far within the wood they came to alittle house, and knocked at the door. There came an old, ugly, beardedhag, and opened it, and they asked her whether all of them could getquarters for the night.

'Yes,' said the old, bearded hag, 'you shall all have quarters for thenight, and, in addition, each of you shall have one of my daughters.'

The eleven brothers thought that they had come to very hospitablepeople. They were well attended to, and when they went to bed, each ofthem got one of the hag's daughters.

Esben had been coming along behind them, and had followed the same way,and had also found the same house in the forest. He slipped into this,without either the witch or her daughters noticing him, and hid himselfunder one of the beds. A little before midnight he crept quietly outand wakened his brothers. He told these to change night-caps with thewitch's daughters. The brothers saw no reason for this, but, to get ridof Esben's persistence, they made the exchange, and slept soundly again.

When midnight came Esben heard the old witch come creeping along. Shehad a broad-bladed axe in her hand, and went over all the eleven beds.It was so dark that she could not see a hand's breadth before her, butshe felt her way, and hacked the heads off all the sleepers who had themen's night-caps on--and these were her own daughters. As soon as shehad gone her way Esben wakened his brothers, and they hastily took theirhorses and rode off from the witch's house, glad that they had escapedso well. They quite forgot to thank Esben for what he had done for them.

When they had ridden onwards for some time they reached a king's palace,and inquired there whether they could be taken into service. Quiteeasily, they were told, if they would be stablemen, otherwise the kinghad no use for them. They were quite ready for this, and got the task oflooking after all the king's horses.

Long after them came Esben riding on his stick, and he also wanted toget a place in the palace, but no one had any use for him, and he wastold that he could just go back the way he had come. However, he stayedthere and occupied himself as best he could. He got his food, butnothing more, and by night he lay just where he could.

At this time there was in the palace a knight who was called Sir Red. Hewas very well liked by the king, but hated by everyone else, for he waswicked both in will and deed. This Sir Red became angry with the elevenbrothers, because they would not always stand at attention for him, sohe determined to avenge himself on them.

One day, therefore, he went to the king, and said that the elevenbrothers who had come to the palace a little while ago, and served asstablemen, could do a great deal more than they pretended. One day hehad heard them say that if they liked they could get for the king awonderful dove which had a feather of gold and a feather of silver timeabout. But they would not procure it unless they were threatened withdeath.

The king then had the eleven brothers called before him, and said tothem, 'You have said that you can get me a dove which has feathers ofgold and silver time about.'

All the eleven assured him that they had never said anything of thekind, and they did not believe that such a dove existed in the wholeworld.

'Take your own mind of it,' said the king; 'but if you don't get thatdove within three days you shall lose your heads, the whole lot of you.'

With that the king let them go, and there was great grief among them;some wept and others lamented.

At that moment Esben came along, and, seeing their sorrowful looks, saidto them, 'Hello, what's the matter with you?'

'What good would it do to tell you, you little fool? You can't help us.'

'Oh, you don't know that,' answered Esben. 'I have helped you before.'

In the end they told him how unreasonable the king was, and how he hadordered them to get for him a dove with feathers of gold and silver timeabout.

'Give me a bag of peas' said Esben, 'and I shall see what I can do foryou.'

Esben got his bag of peas; then he took his white stick, and said,



 Fly quick, my little stick, Carry me across the stream.

Straightway the stick carried him across the river and straight into theold witch's courtyard. Esben had noticed that she had such a dove; sowhen he arrived in the courtyard he shook the peas out of the bag, andthe dove came fluttering down to pick them up. Esben caught it at once,put it into the bag, and hurried off before the witch caught sight ofhim; but the next moment she came running, and shouted after him, ' IHey is that you, Esben.?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'Is it you that has taken my dove?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'Was it you that made me kill my eleven daughters?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'Are you coming back again?'

'That may be,' said Esben.

'Then you'll catch it,' shouted the witch.

The stick carried Esben with the dove back to the king's palace, and hisbrothers were greatly delighted. The king thanked them many times forthe dove, and gave them in return both silver and gold. At this Sir Redbecame still more embittered, and again thought of how to avenge himselfon the brothers.

One day he went to the king and told him that the dove was by no meansthe best thing that the brothers could get for him; for one day he hadheard them talking quietly among themselves, and they had said that theycould procure a boar whose bristles were of gold and silver time about.

The king again summoned the brothers before him, and asked whether itwas true that they had said that they could get for him a boar whosebristles were of gold and silver time about.

'No,' said the brothers; they had never said nor thought such a thing,and they did not believe that there was such a boar in the whole world.

'You must get me that boar within three days,' said the king, 'or itwill cost you your heads.'

With that they had to go. This was still worse than before, theythought. Where could they get such a marvellous boar? They all wentabout hanging their heads; but when only one day remained of the threeEsben came along. When he saw his brothers' sorrowful looks he cried,'Hallo, what's the matter now?'

'Oh, what's the use of telling you?' said his brothers. 'You can't helpus, at any rate.'

'Ah, you don't know that,' said Esben; 'I've helped you before.'

In the end they told him how Sir Red had stirred up the king againstthem, so that he had ordered them to get for him a boar with bristles ofgold and silver time about.

'That's all right,' said Esben; 'give me a sack of malt, and it is notquite impossible that I may be able to help you.'

Esben got his sack of malt; then he took his little white stick, sethimself upon it, and said,



 Fly quick, my little stick, Carry me across the stream.

Off went the stick with him, and very soon he was again in the witch'scourtyard. There he emptied out the malt, and next moment came the boar,which had every second bristle of gold and of silver. Esben at once putit into his sack and hurried off before the witch should catch sight ofhim; but the next moment she came running, and shouted after him, 'Hey!is that you, Esben?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'Is it you that has taken my pretty boar?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'It was also you that took my dove?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'And it was you that made me kill my eleven daughters?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'Are you coming back again?'

'That may be,' said Esben.

'Then you'll catch it,' said the witch.

Esben was soon back at the palace with the boar, and his brothersscarcely knew which leg to stand on, so rejoiced were they that theywere safe again. Not one of them, however, ever thought of thankingEsben for what he had done for them.

The king was still more rejoiced over the boar than he had been over thedove, and did not know what to give the brothers for it. At this SirRed was again possessed with anger and envy, and again he went about andplanned how to get the brothers into trouble.

One day he went again to the king and said, 'These eleven brothers havenow procured the dove and the boar, but they can do much more than that;I know they have said that if they liked they could get for the king alamp that can shine over seven kingdoms.'

'If they have said that,' said the king, 'they shall also be made tobring it to me. That would be a glorious lamp for me.'

Again the king sent a message to the brothers to come up to the palace.They went accordingly, although very unwillingly, for they suspectedthat Sir Red had fallen on some new plan to bring them into trouble.

As soon as they came before the king he said to them,

'You brothers have said that you could, if you liked, get for me a lampthat can shine over seven kingdoms. That lamp must be mine within threedays, or it will cost you your lives.'

The brothers assured him that they had never said so, and they were surethat no such lamp existed, but their words were of no avail.

'The lamp!' said the king, 'or it will cost you your heads.'

The brothers were now in greater despair than ever. They did not knowwhat to do, for such a lamp no one had ever heard of. But just as thingslooked their worst along came Esben.

'Something wrong again?' said he. 'What's the matter with you now?'

'Oh, it's no use telling you,' said they. 'You can't help us, at anyrate.'

'Oh, you might at least tell me,' said Esben; 'I have helped youbefore.'

In the end they told him that the king had ordered them to bring him alamp which could shine over seven kingdoms, but such a lamp no one hadever heard tell of.

'Give me a bushel of salt,' said Esben, 'and we shall see how mattersgo.'

He got his bushel of salt, and then mounted his little white stick, andsaid,



 Fly quick, my little stick, Carry me across the stream.

With that both he and his bushel of salt were over beside the witch'scourtyard. But now matters were less easy, for he could not get insidethe yard, as it was evening and the gate was locked. Finally he hit upona plan; he got up on the roof and crept down the chimney.

He searched all round for the lamp, but could find it nowhere, for thewitch always had it safely guarded, as it was one of her most precioustreasures. When he became tired of searching for it he crept into thebaking- oven, intending to lie down there and sleep till morning; butjust at that moment he heard the witch calling from her bed to one ofher daughters, and telling her to make some porridge for her. She hadgrown hungry, and had taken such a fancy to some porridge. The daughtergot out of bed, kindled the fire, and put on a pot with water in it.

'You mustn't put any salt in the porridge, though,' cried the witch.

'No, neither will I,' said the daughter; but while she was away gettingthe meal Esben slipped out of the oven and emptied the whole bushel ofsalt into the pot. The daughter came back then and put in the meal, andafter it had boiled a little she took it in to her mother. The witchtook a spoonful and tasted it.

'Uh!' said she; 'didn't I tell you not to put any salt in it, and it'sjust as salt as the sea.'

So the daughter had to go and make new porridge, and her mother warnedher strictly not to put any salt in it. But now there was no water inthe house, so she asked her mother to give her the lamp, so that shecould go to the well for more.

'There you have it, then,' said the witch; 'but take good care of it.'

The daughter took the lamp which shone over seven kingdoms, and went outto the well for water, while Esben slipped out after her. When she wasgoing to draw the water from the well she set the lamp down on a stonebeside her. Esben watched his chance, seized the lamp, and gave her apush from behind, so that she plumped head first into the well. Then hemade off with the lamp. But the witch got out of her bed and ran afterhim, crying:

'Hey! is that you again, Esben?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'Was it you that took my dove?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'Was it also you that took my boar?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'And it was you that made me kill my eleven daughters?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'And now you have taken my lamp, and drowned my twelfth daughter in thewell?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'Are you coming back again?'

'That may be,' said Esben.

'Then you'll catch it,' said the witch.

It was only a minute before the stick had again landed Esben at theking's palace, and the brothers were then freed from their distress. Theking gave them many fine presents, but Esben did not get even so much asthanks from them.

Never had Sir Red been so eaten up with envy as he was now, and heracked his brain day and night to find something quite impossible todemand from the brothers.

One day he went to the king and told him that the lamp the brothers hadprocured was good enough, but they could still get for him somethingthat was far better. The king asked what that was.

'It is,' said Sir Red, 'the most beautiful coverlet that any mortal everheard tell of. It also has the property that, when anyone touches it, itsounds so that it can be heard over eight kingdoms.'

'That must be a splendid coverlet,' said the king, and he at once sentfor the brothers.

'You have said that you know of a coverlet, the most beautiful in thewhole world, and which sounds over eight kingdoms when anyone touchesit. You shall procure it for me, or else lose your lives,' said he.

The brothers answered him that they had never said a word about such acoverlet, did not believe it existed, and that it was quite impossiblefor them to procure it. But the king would not hear a word; he drovethem away, telling them that if they did not get it very soon it wouldcost them their heads.

Things looked very black again for the brothers, for they were surethere was no escape for them. The youngest of them, indeed, asked whereEsben was, but the others said that that little fool could scarcely keephimself in clothes, and it was not to be expected that he could helpthem. Not one of them thought it worth while to look for Esben, but hesoon came along of himself.

'Well, what's the matter now?' said he.

'Oh, what's the use of telling you?' said the brothers. 'You can't helpus, at any rate.'

'Ah! who knows that?' said Esben. 'I have helped you before.'

In the end the brothers told him about the coverlet which, when onetouched it, sounded so that it could be heard over eight kingdoms. Esbenthought that this was the worst errand that he had had yet, but he couldnot do worse than fail, and so he would make the attempt.

He again took his little white stick, set himself on it, and said,

 Fly quick, my little stick, Carry me across the stream.

Next moment he was across the river and beside the witch's house. It wasevening, and the door was locked, but he knew the way down the chimney.When he had got into the house, however, the worst yet remained to do,for the coverlet was on the bed in which the witch lay and slept. Heslipped into the room without either she or her daughter wakening; butas soon as he touched the coverlet to take it it sounded so that itcould be heard over eight kingdoms. The witch awoke, sprang out of bed,and caught hold of Esben. He struggled with her, but could not freehimself, and the witch called to her daughter, 'Come and help me; weshall put him into the little dark room to be fattened. Ho, ho! now Ihave him!'

Esben was now put into a little dark hole, where he neither saw sun normoon, and there he was fed on sweet milk and nut-kernels. The daughterhad enough to do cracking nuts for him, and at the end of fourteen daysshe had only one tooth left in her mouth; she had broken all the restwith the nuts. In this time however, she had taken a liking to Esben,and would willingly have set him free, but could not.

When some time had passed the witch told her daughter to go and cut afinger off Esben, so that she could see whether he was nearly fat enoughyet. The daughter went and told Esben, and asked him what she should do.Esben told her to take an iron nail and wrap a piece of skin round it:she could then give her mother this to bite at.

The daughter did so, but when the witch bit it she cried, 'Uh! no, no!This is nothing but skin and bone; he must be fattened much longer yet.'

So Esben was fed for a while longer on sweet milk and nut-kernels, untilone day the witch thought that now he must surely be fat enough, andtold her daughter again to go and cut a finger off him. By this timeEsben was tired of staying in the dark hole, so he told her to go andcut a teat off a cow, and give it to the witch to bite at. This thedaughter did, and the witch cried, 'Ah! now he is fat--so fat that onecan scarcely feel the bone in him. Now he shall be killed.'

Now this was just the very time that the witch had to go to TromsChurch, where all the witches gather once every year, so she had no timeto deal with Esben herself. She therefore told her daughter to heat upthe big oven while she was away, take Esben out of his prison, and roasthim in there before she came back. The daughter promised all this, andthe witch went off on her journey.

The daughter then made the oven as hot as could be, and took Esben outof his prison in order to roast him. She brought the oven spade, andtold Esben to seat himself on it, so that she could shoot him into theoven. Esben accordingly took his seat on it, but when she had got him tothe mouth of the oven he spread his legs out wide, so that she could notget him pushed in.

'You mustn't sit like that,' said she.

'How then?' said Esben.

'You must cross your legs,' said the daughter; but Esben could notunderstand what she meant by this.

'Get out of the way,' said she, 'and I will show you how to placeyourself.'

She seated herself on the oven spade, but no sooner had she done so thanEsben laid hold of it, shot her into the oven, and fastened the doorof it. Then he ran and seized the coverlet, but as soon as he did so itsounded so that it could be heard over eight kingdoms, and the witch,who was at Troms Church, came flying home, and shouted, 'Hey! is thatyou again, Esben?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'It was you that made me kill my eleven daughters?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'And took my dove?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'And my beautiful boar?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'And drowned my twelfth daughter in the well, and took my lamp?'

'Ye--e--s!'

'And now you have roasted my thirteenth and last daughter in the oven,and taken my coverlet?'

'YeAeeAes!'

'Are you coming back again?'

'No, never again,' said Esben.

At this the witch became so furious that she sprang into numberlesspieces of flint, and from this come all the flint stones that one findsabout the country.

Esben had found again his little stick, which the witch had taken fromhim, so he said,



 Fly quick, my little stick, Carry me across the stream.

Next moment he was back at the king's palace. Here things were in a badway, for the king had thrown all the eleven brothers into prison, andthey were to be executed very shortly because they had not brought himthe coverlet. Esben now went up to the king and gave him the coverlet,with which the king was greatly delighted. When he touched it it couldbe heard over eight kingdoms, and all the other kings sat and were angrybecause they had not one like it.

Esben also told how everything had happened, and how Sir Red had donethe brothers all the ill he could devise because he was envious ofthem. The brothers were at once set at liberty, while Sir Red, for hiswickedness, was hanged on the highest tree that could be found, and sohe got the reward he deserved.

Much was made of Esben and his brothers, and these now thanked him forall that he had done for them. The twelve of them received as much goldand silver as they could carry, and betook themselves home to their oldfather. When he saw again his twelve sons, whom he had never expected tosee more, he was so glad that he wept for joy. The brothers told himhow much Esben had done, and how he had saved their lives, and from thattime forward he was no longer the butt of the rest at home.
