EXPLORING THE OCEAN (Fantasy:- Ages 5 to 10)

  The queen now requested her guests to recline upon couches that they  might rest themselves from their long swim and talk more at their  ease. So the girl and the sailor allowed themselves to float  downward until they rested their bodies on two of the couches  nearest the throne, which were willingly vacated for them by the  mermaids who occupied them until then.

The visitors soon found themselves answering a great many questions  about their life on the earth, for although the queen had said she  kept track of what was going on on the land, there were many details  of human life in which all the mermaids seemed greatly interested.

During the conversation several sea-maids came swimming into the  room bearing trays of sea apples and other fruit, which they first  offered to the queen, and then passed the refreshments around to the  company assembled. Trot and Cap'n Bill each took some, and the  little girl found the fruits delicious to eat, as they had a richer  flavor than any that grew upon land. Queen Aquareine was much  pleased when the old sailor asked for more, but Merla warned him  dinner would soon be served and he must take care not to spoil his  appetite for that meal. "Our dinner is at noon, for we have to cook  in the middle of the day when the sun is shining," she said.

"Cook!" cried Trot. "Why, you can't build a fire in the water, can  you?"

"We have no need of fires," was the reply. "The glass roof of our  kitchen is so curved that it concentrates the heat of the sun's  rays, which are then hot enough to cook anything we wish."

"But how do you get along if the day is cloudy, and the sun doesn't  shine?" inquired the little girl.

"Then we use the hot springs that bubble up in another part of the  palace," Merla answered. "But the sun is the best to cook by." So it  was no surprise to Trot when, about noon, dinner was announced and  all the mermaids, headed by their queen and their guests, swam into  another spacious room where a great, long table was laid. The dishes  were of polished gold and dainty-cut glass, and the cloth and  napkins of fine gossamer. Around the table were ranged rows of  couches for the mermaids to recline upon as they ate. Only the  nobility and favorites of Queen Aquareine were invited to partake of  this repast, for Clia explained that tables were set for the other  mermaids in different parts of the numerous palaces.

Trot wondered who would serve the meal, but her curiosity was soon  satisfied when several large lobsters came sliding into the room  backward, bearing in their claws trays loaded with food. Each of  these lobsters had a golden band behind its neck to show it was the  slave of the mermaids.

These curious waiters were fussy creatures, and Trot found much  amusement in watching their odd motions. They were so spry and  excitable that at times they ran against one another and upset the  platters of food, after which they began to scold and argue as to  whose fault it was, until one of the mermaids quietly rebuked them  and asked them to be more quiet and more careful.

The queen's guests had no cause to complain of the dinner provided.  First the lobsters served bowls of turtle soup, which proved hot and  deliciously flavored. Then came salmon steaks fried in fish oil,  with a fungus bread that tasted much like field mushrooms. Oysters,  clams, soft-shell crabs and various preparations of seafoods  followed. The salad was a delicate leaf from some seaweed that Trot  thought was much nicer than lettuce. Several courses were served,  and the lobsters changed the plates with each course, chattering and  scolding as they worked, and as Trot said, "doing everything  backwards" in their nervous, fussy way.

Many of the things offered them to eat were unknown to the visitors,  and the child was suspicious of some of them, but Cap'n Bill asked  no questions and ate everything offered him, so Trot decided to  follow his example. Certain it is they found the meal very  satisfying, and evidently there was no danger of their being hungry  while they remained the guests of the mermaids. When the fruits  came, Trot thought that must be the last course of the big dinner,  but following the fruits were ice creams frozen into the shape of  flowers.

"How funny," said the child, "to be eating ice cream at the bottom  of the sea."

"Why does that surprise you?" inquired the Queen.

"I can't see where you get the ice to freeze it," Trot replied.

"It is brought to us from the icebergs that float in the northern  parts of the ocean," explained Merla.

"O' course, Trot. You orter thought o' that. I did," said Cap'n  Bill.

The little girl was glad there was no more to eat, for she was  ashamed to feel she had eaten every morsel she could. Her only  excuse for being so greedy was that "ev'rything tasted just  splendid!" as she told the queen.

"And now," said Aquareine, "I will send you out for a swim with  Merla, who will show you some of the curious sights of our sea. You  need not go far this afternoon, and when you return, we will have  another interesting talk together." So the blonde mermaid led Trot  and Cap'n Bill outside the palace walls, where they found themselves  in the pretty flower gardens.

"I'd feel all right, mate, if I could have a smoke," remarked the  old sailor to the child, "but that's a thing as can't be did here in  the water."

"Why not?" asked Merla, who overheard him.

"A pipe has to be lighted, an' a match wouldn't burn," he replied.

"Try it," suggested the mermaid. "I do not mind your smoking at all,  if it will give you pleasure."

"It's a bad habit I've got, an' I'm too old to break myself of it,"  said Cap'n Bill. Then he felt in the big pocket of his coat and took  out a pipe and a bag of tobacco. After he had carefully filled his  pipe, rejoicing in the fact that the tobacco was not at all wet, he  took out his matchbox and struck a light. The match burned brightly,  and soon the sailor was puffing the smoke from his pipe in great  contentment. The smoke ascended through the water in the shape of  bubbles, and Trot wondered what anyone who happened to be floating  upon the surface of the ocean would think to see smoke coming from  the water.

"Well, I find I can smoke, all right," remarked Cap'n Bill, "but it  bothers me to understand why."

"It is because of the air space existing between the water and  everything you have about you," explained Merla. "But now, if you  will come this way, I will take you to visit some of our neighbors."  They passed over the carpet of sea flowers, the gorgeous blossoms  swaying on their stems as the motion of the people in the water  above them disturbed their repose, and presently the three entered  the dense shrubbery surrounding the palace. They had not proceeded  far when they came to a clearing among the bushes, and here Merla  paused.

Trot and Cap'n Bill paused, too, for floating in the clear water was  a group of beautiful shapes that the child thought looked like molds  of wine jelly. They were round as a dinner plate, soft and  transparent, but tinted in such lovely hues that no artist's brush  has ever been able to imitate them. Some were deep sapphire blue;  others rose pink; still others a delicate topaz color. They seemed  to have neither heads, eyes nor ears, yet it was easy to see they  were alive and able to float in any direction they wished to go. In  shape they resembled inverted flowerpots, with the upper edges  fluted, and from the centers floated what seemed to be bouquets of  flowers.

"How pretty!" exclaimed Trot, enraptured by the sight.

"Yes, this is a rare variety of jellyfish," replied Merla. "The  creatures are not so delicate as they appear, and live for a long  time--unless they get too near the surface and the waves wash them  ashore."

After watching the jellyfish a few moments, they followed Merla  through the grove, and soon a low chant, like that of an Indian  song, fell upon their ears. It was a chorus of many small voices and  grew louder as they swam on. Presently a big rock rose suddenly  before them from the bottom of the sea, rearing its steep side far  up into the water overhead, and this rock was thickly covered with  tiny shells that clung fast to its surface. The chorus they heard  appeared to come from these shells, and Merla said to her  companions, "These are the singing barnacles. They are really very  amusing, and if you listen carefully, you can hear what they say."

So Trot and Cap'n Bill listened, and this is what the barnacles  sang:

  "We went to topsy-turvy land to see a man-o'-war,

And we were much attached to it, because we simply were;

We found an anchor-ite within the mud upon the lea

For the ghost of Jonah's whale he ran away and went to sea.

Oh, it was awful!

It was unlawful!

We rallied round the flag in sev'ral millions;

They couldn't shake us;

They had to take us;

So the halibut and cod they danced cotillions."

"What does it all mean?" asked Trot.

"I suppose they refer to the way barnacles have of clinging to  ships," replied Merla, "but usually the songs mean nothing at all.  The little barnacles haven't many brains, so we usually find their  songs quite stupid."

"Do they write some comic operas?" asked the child.

"I think not," answered the mermaid.

"They seem to like the songs themselves," remarked Cap'n Bill.

"Oh yes, they sing all day long. But it never matters to them  whether their songs mean anything or not. Let us go in this  direction and visit some other sea people."

So they swam away from the barnacle-covered rock, and Trot heard the  last chorus as she slowly followed their conductor. The barnacles  were singing:

"Oh, very well, then, I hear the curfew,  Please go away and come some other day;  Goliath tussels  With Samson's muscles,  Yet the muscles never fight in Oyster Bay."

"It's jus' nonsense!" said Trot scornfully. "Why don't they sing  'Annie Laurie' or 'Home, Sweet Home' or else keep quiet?"

"Why, if they were quiet," replied Merla, "they wouldn't be singing  barnacles."

They now came to one of the avenues which led from the sea garden  out into the broad ocean, and here two swordfishes were standing  guard. "Is all quiet?" Merla asked them.

"Just as usual, your Highness," replied one of the guards.  "Mummercubble was sick this morning and grunted dreadfully, but he's  better now and has gone to sleep. King Anko has been stirring around  some, but is now taking his after-dinner nap. I think it will be  perfectly safe for you to swim out for a while, if you wish."

"Who's Mummercubble?" asked Trot as they passed out into deep water.

"He's the sea pig," replied Merla. "I am glad he's asleep, for now  we won't meet him."

"Don't you like him?" inquired Trot.

"Oh, he complains so bitterly of everything that he bores us," Merla  answered. "Mummercubble is never contented or happy for a single  minute."

"I've seen people like that," said Cap'n Bill with a nod of his  head. "An' they has a way of upsettin' the happiest folks they  meet."

"Look out!" suddenly cried the mermaid. "Look out for your fingers!  Here are the snapping eels."

"Who? Where?" asked Trot anxiously.

And now they were in the midst of a cluster of wriggling, darting  eels which sported all around them in the water with marvelous  activity. "Yes, look out for your fingers and your noses!" said one  of the eels, making a dash for Cap'n Bill. At first the sailor was  tempted to put out a hand and push the creature away, but  remembering that his fingers would thus be exposed, he remained  quiet, and the eel snapped harmlessly just before his face and then  darted away.

"Stop it!" said Merla. "Stop it this minute, or I'll report your  impudence to Aquareine."

"Oh, who cares?" shouted the Eels. "We're not afraid of the  mermaids."

"She'll stiffen you up again, as she did once before," said Merla,  "if you try to hurt the earth people."

"Are these earth people?" asked one. And then they all stopped their  play and regarded Trot and Cap'n Bill with their little black eyes.

"The old polliwog looks something like King Anko," said one of them.

"I'm not a polliwog!" answered Cap'n Bill angrily. "I'm a respec'ble  sailor man, an' I'll have you treat me decent or I'll know why."

"Sailor!" said another. "That means to float on the water--not IN  it. What are you doing down here?"

"I'm jes' a-visitin'," answered Cap'n Bill.

"He is the guest of our queen," said Merla, "and so is this little  girl. If you do not behave nicely to them, you will surely be  sorry."

"Oh, that's all right," replied one of the biggest eels, wriggling  around in a circle and then snapping at a companion, which as  quickly snapped out of his way. "We know how to be polite to company  as well as the mermaids. We won't hurt them."

"Come on, fellows, let's go scare old Mummercubble," cried another;  and then in a flash they all darted away and left our friends to  themselves. Trot was greatly relieved.

"I don't like eels," she said.

"They are more mischievous than harmful," replied Merla, "but I do  not care much for them myself."

"No," added Cap'n Bill, "they ain't respec'ful."
