FAIRER-THAN-A-FAIRY (Fables:- Ages 0 to 5)

Once there lived a King who had no children for many years after his  marriage. At length heaven granted him a daughter of such remarkable  beauty that he could think of no name so appropriate for her as  'Fairer-than-a-Fairy.'

It never occurred to the good-natured monarch that such a name was  certain to call down the hatred and jealousy of the fairies in a body on  the child, but this was what happened. No sooner had they heard of this  presumptuous name than they resolved to gain possession of her who bore  it, and either to torment her cruelly, or at least to conceal her from  the eyes of all men.

The eldest of their tribe was entrusted to carry out their revenge. This  Fairy was named Lagree; she was so old that she only had one eye and one  tooth left, and even these poor remains she had to keep all night in a  strengthening liquid. She was also so spiteful that she gladly devoted  all her time to carrying out all the mean or ill-natured tricks of the  whole body of fairies.

With her large experience, added to her native spite, she found but  little difficulty in carrying off Fairer-than-a-Fairy. The poor child,  who was only seven years old, nearly died of fear on finding herself  in the power of this hideous creature. However, when after an hour's  journey underground she found herself in a splendid palace with lovely  gardens, she felt a little reassured, and was further cheered when she  discovered that her pet cat and dog had followed her.

The old Fairy led her to a pretty room which she said should be hers, at  the same time giving her the strictest orders never to let out the fire  which was burning brightly in the grate. She then gave two glass bottles  into the Princess's charge, desiring her to take the greatest care of  them, and having enforced her orders with the most awful threats in case  of disobedience, she vanished, leaving the little girl at liberty to  explore the palace and grounds and a good deal relieved at having only  two apparently easy tasks set her.

Several years passed, during which time the Princess grew accustomed to  her lonely life, obeyed the Fairy's orders, and by degrees forgot all  about the court of the King her father.

One day, whilst passing near a fountain in the garden, she noticed  that the sun's rays fell on the water in such a manner as to produce  a brilliant rainbow. She stood still to admire it, when, to her great  surprise, she heard a voice addressing her which seemed to come from the  centre of its rays. The voice was that of a young man, and its sweetness  of tone and the agreeable things it uttered, led one to infer that its  owner must be equally charming; but this had to be a mere matter of  fancy, for no one was visible.

The beautiful Rainbow informed Fairer-than-a-Fairy that he was young,  the son of a powerful king, and that the Fairy, Lagree, who owed his  parents a grudge, had revenged herself by depriving him of his natural  shape for some years; that she had imprisoned him in the palace, where  he had found his confinement hard to bear for some time, but now, he  owned, he no longer sighed for freedom since he had seen and learned to  love Fairer-than-a-Fairy.

He added many other tender speeches to this declaration, and the  Princess, to whom such remarks were a new experience, could not help  feeling pleased and touched by his attentions.

The Prince could only appear or speak under the form of a Rainbow, and  it was therefore necessary that the sun should shine on water so as to  enable the rays to form themselves.

Fairer-than-a-Fairy lost no moment in which she could meet her lover,  and they enjoyed many long and interesting interviews. One day, however,  their conversation became so absorbing and time passed so quickly that  the Princess forgot to attend to the fire, and it went out. Lagree, on  her return, soon found out the neglect, and seemed only too pleased to  have the opportunity of showing her spite to her lovely prisoner. She  ordered Fairer-than-a-Fairy to start next day at dawn to ask Locrinos  for fire with which to relight the one she had allowed to go out.

Now this Locrinos was a cruel monster who devoured everyone he came  across, and especially enjoyed a chance of catching and eating any young  girls. Our heroine obeyed with great sweetness, and without having been  able to take leave of her lover she set off to go to Locrinos as to  certain death. As she was crossing a wood a bird sang to her to pick up  a shining pebble which she would find in a fountain close by, and to use  it when needed. She took the bird's advice, and in due time arrived at  the house of Locrinos. Luckily she only found his wife at home, who was  much struck by the Princess's youth and beauty and sweet gentle manners,  and still further impressed by the present of the shining pebble.

She readily let Fairer-than-a-Fairy have the fire, and in return for  the stone she gave her another, which, she said, might prove useful some  day. Then she sent her away without doing her any harm.

Lagree was as much surprised as displeased at the happy result of this  expedition, and Fairer-than-a Fairy waited anxiously for an opportunity  of meeting Prince Rainbow and telling him her adventures. She found,  however, that he had already been told all about them by a Fairy who  protected him, and to whom he was related.

The dread of fresh dangers to his beloved Princess made him devise  some more convenient way of meeting than by the garden fountain, and  Fairer-than-a-Fairy carried out his plan daily with entire success.  Every morning she placed a large basin full of water on her window-sill,  and as soon as the sun's rays fell on the water the Rainbow appeared  as clearly as it had ever done in the fountain. By this means they were  able to meet without losing sight of the fire or of the two bottles in  which the old Fairy kept her eye and her tooth at night, and for some  time the lovers enjoyed every hour of sunshine together.

One day Prince Rainbow appeared in the depths of woe. He had just heard  that he was to be banished from this lovely spot, but he had no idea  where he was to go. The poor young couple were in despair, and only  parted with the last ray of sunshine, and in hopes of meeting next  morning. Alas! next day was dark and gloomy, and it was only late in the  afternoon that the sun broke through the clouds for a few minutes.

Fairer-than-a-Fairy eagerly ran to the window, but in her haste she  upset the basin, and spilt all the water with which she had carefully  filled it overnight. No other water was at hand except that in the two  bottles. It was the only chance of seeing her lover before they were  separated, and she did not hesitate to break the bottle and pour their  contents into the basin, when the Rainbow appeared at once. Their  farewells were full of tenderness; the Prince made the most ardent and  sincere protestations, and promised to neglect nothing which might help  to deliver his dear Fairer-than-a-Fairy from her captivity, and implored  her to consent to their marriage as soon as they should both be free.  The Princess, on her side, vowed to have no other husband, and declared  herself willing to brave death itself in order to rejoin him.

They were not allowed much time for their adieus; the Rainbow vanished,  and the Princess, resolved to run all risks, started off at once, taking  nothing with her but her dog, her cat, a sprig of myrtle, and the stone  which the wife of Locrinos gave her.

When Lagree became aware of her prisoner's flight she was furious, and  set off at full speed in pursuit. She overtook her just as the poor  girl, overcome by fatigue, had lain down to rest in a cave which the  stone had formed itself into to shelter her. The little dog who was  watching her mistress promptly flew at Lagree and bit her so severely  that she stumbled against a corner of the cave and broke off her only  tooth. Before she had recovered from the pain and rage this caused her,  the Princess had time to escape, and was some way on her road. Fear gave  her strength for some time, but at last she could go no further, and  sank down to rest. As she did so, the sprig of myrtle she carried  touched the ground, and immediately a green and shady bower sprang up  round her, in which she hoped to sleep in peace.

But Lagree had not given up her pursuit, and arrived just as  Fairer-than-a-Fairy had fallen fast asleep. This time she made sure of  catching her victim, but the cat spied her out, and, springing from one  of the boughs of the arbour she flew at Lagree's face and tore out her  only eye, thus delivering the Princess for ever from her persecutor.

One might have thought that all would now be well, but no sooner had  Lagree been put to fight than our heroine was overwhelmed with hunger  and thirst. She felt as though she should certainly expire, and it was  with some difficulty that she dragged herself as far as a pretty little  green and white house, which stood at no great distance. Here she was  received by a beautiful lady dressed in green and white to match the  house, which apparently belonged to her, and of which she seemed the  only inhabitant.

She greeted the fainting Princess most kindly, gave her an excellent  supper, and after a long night's rest in a delightful bed told her that  after many troubles she should finally attain her desire.

As the green and white lady took leave of the Princess she gave her a  nut, desiring her only to open it in the most urgent need.

After a long and tiring journey Fairer-than-a-Fairy was once more  received in a house, and by a lady exactly like the one she had quitted.  Here again she received a present with the same injunctions, but instead  of a nut this lady gave her a golden pomegranate. The mournful Princess  had to continue her weary way, and after many troubles and hardships she  again found rest and shelter in a third house exactly similar to the two  others.

These houses belonged to three sisters, all endowed with fairy gifts,  and all so alike in mind and person that they wished their houses and  garments to be equally alike. Their occupation consisted in helping  those in misfortune, and they were as gentle and benevolent as Lagree  had been cruel and spiteful.

The third Fairy comforted the poor traveller, begged her not to lose  heart, and assured her that her troubles should be rewarded.

She accompanied her advice by the gift of a crystal smelling-bottle,  with strict orders only to open it in case of urgent need.  Fairer-than-a-Fairy thanked her warmly, and resumed her way cheered by  pleasant thoughts.

After a time her road led through a wood, full of soft airs and sweet  odours, and before she had gone a hundred yards she saw a wonderful  silver Castle suspended by strong silver chains to four of the  largest trees. It was so perfectly hung that a gentle breeze rocked it  sufficiently to send you pleasantly to sleep.

Fairer-than-a-Fairy felt a strong desire to enter this Castle, but  besides being hung a little above the ground there seemed to be neither  doors nor windows. She had no doubt (though really I cannot think why)  that the moment had come in which to use the nut which had been given  her. She opened it, and out came a diminutive hall porter at whose belt  hung a tiny chain, at the end of which was a golden key half as long as  the smallest pin you ever saw.

The Princess climbed up one of the silver chains, holding in her hand  the little porter who, in spite of his minute size, opened a secret door  with his golden key and let her in. She entered a magnificent room which  appeared to occupy the entire Castle, and which was lighted by gold and  jewelled stars in the ceiling. In the midst of this room stood a couch,  draped with curtains of all the colours of the rainbow, and suspended by  golden cords so that it swayed with the Castle in a manner which rocked  its occupant delightfully to sleep.

On this elegant couch lay Prince Rainbow, looking more beautiful than  ever, and sunk in profound slumber, in which he had been held ever since  his disappearance.

Fairy-than-a-Fairy, who now saw him for the first time in his real  shape, hardly dared to gaze at him, fearing lest his appearance might  not be in keeping with the voice and language which had won her heart.  At the same time she could not help feeling rather hurt at the apparent  indifference with which she was received.

She related all the dangers and difficulties she had gone through, and  though she repeated the story twenty times in a loud clear voice, the  Prince slept on and took no heed. She then had recourse to the golden  pomegranate, and on opening it found that all the seeds were as many  little violins which flew up in the vaulted roof and at once began  playing melodiously.

The Prince was not completely roused, but he opened his eyes a little  and looked all the handsomer.

Impatient at not being recognised, Fairer-than-a-Fairy now drew out her  third present, and on opening the crystal scent-bottle a little syren  flew out, who silenced the violins and then sang close to the Prince's  ear the story of all his lady love had suffered in her search for him.  She added some gentle reproaches to her tale, but before she had got  far he was wide awake, and transported with joy threw himself at the  Princess's feet. At the same moment the walls of the room expanded and  opened out, revealing a golden throne covered with jewels. A magnificent  Court now began to assemble, and at the same time several elegant  carriages filled with ladies in magnificent dresses drove up. In the  first and most splendid of these carriages sat Prince Rainbow's mother.  She fondly embraced her son, after which she informed him that his  father had been dead for some years, that the anger of the Fairies was  at length appeased, and that he might return in peace to reign over his  people, who were longing for his presence.

The Court received the new King with joyful acclamations which would  have delighted him at any other time, but all his thoughts were full of  Fairer-than-a-Fairy. He was just about to present her to his mother and  the Court, feeling sure that her charms would win all hearts, when the  three green and white sisters appeared.

They declared the secret of Fairy-than-a-Fairy's royal birth, and the  Queen taking the two lovers in her carriage set off with them for the  capital of the kingdom.

Here they were received with tumultuous joy. The wedding was celebrated  without delay, and succeeding years diminished neither the virtues,  beauty, nor the mutual affection of King Rainbow and his Queen,  Fairer-than-a-Fairy.
