Farmer Green's Cat (Fable:- Ages 5 to 10)

  There were plenty of nuts in the attic of Farmer Green's house, where  Frisky Squirrel found himself a prisoner. And you might think that he  wouldn't have felt so unhappy to be there. But Frisky was unhappy. He  was so frightened that he crept into a corner and stayed there,  shivering, for a long time. And he couldn't have eaten a single one of  those nuts if he had tried. He wanted to be free. He wanted to be out  of doors. He wanted to go home.

After a time the storm passed. The wind stopped blowing. And the sun  shone again. But nobody came to the attic to open the window. When it  grew quite light Frisky did not feel so frightened. And at last he  crept out of his corner and went nosing about the room, hoping to find  a hole big enough to squeeze through.

Now, you must not think Frisky Squirrel was stupid, when I tell you  that the door was open all this time. It was open just the smallest  crack, for Farmer Green's wife hadn't quite closed it when she went  downstairs. Frisky had been too frightened to notice it. Besides, the  attic had been dark, you know.

Well, when Frisky found that crack he was the happiest little fellow  you ever saw. It was only a narrow opening; but he slipped through it.  And there he was, right at the head of the stairs! So downstairs he  hurried. The door below was wide open. And in less time than it takes  to tell the story, Frisky was in Farmer Green's kitchen. He remembered  that room very well, for he had been there when he came to taste that  white-frosted cake.

But this time Frisky did not stop to look for any cake. He just  scampered across the floor toward the wide doorway. And as he bounded  across the room something sprang out from behind the stove and started  after him.

Frisky Squirrel saw that some animal had leaped at him. He didn't stop  to take a good look; but he supposed that it was a small dog that had  been drying himself by the fire. Frisky knew that dogs couldn't climb  trees. So he sprang through the door, never touching the big stone  doorstep at all, and hurried toward a tree in Farmer Green's yard. He  laughed as he scurried up the tree-trunk. And then he looked down at  his enemy.

Then Frisky Squirrel's heart almost stood still. That small animal was  coming right up the tree after him! Of course, it wasn't a dog at all.  It was Farmer Green's cat. Frisky had never seen a cat before and he  began to wonder whether the small creature could fly, as well as climb  trees. He scampered to the top of the tree; and then he leaped upon a  branch of another tree close by.

No! The small animal could not fly. She climbed as high as she dared.  And then she stopped. Her eyes glared fiercely; and her tail grew as  big as Frisky's own. But that didn't help her at all. She could only  sit there and watch Frisky Squirrel as he dropped from branch to  branch, until she lost sight of him among the leaves.
