FATTY COON'S MISTAKE (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Fatty Coon was very fond of squirrels. And you may think it strange when  I tell you that not one of the squirrels anywhere around Blue Mountain  was the least bit fond of Fatty Coon. But when I say that Fatty Coon was  fond of squirrels, I mean that he liked to eat them. So of course you  will understand now why the squirrels did not care for Fatty at all. In  fact, they usually kept just as far away from him as they could.

It was easy, in the daytime, for the squirrels to keep out of Fatty's  way, when he wandered through the tree-tops, for the squirrels were much  sprier than Fatty. But at night--ah! that was a very different matter.  For Fatty Coon's eyes were even sharper in the dark than they were in  the daylight; but the poor squirrels were just as blind as you are when  you are safely tucked in bed and the light is put out.

Yes--when the squirrels were in bed at night, up in their nests in the  trees, they could see very little. And you couldn't say they were SAFE  in bed, because they never knew when Fatty Coon, or his mother, or his  brother, or one of his sisters, or some cousin of his, might come along  and catch them before they knew it.

Fatty thought it great sport to hunt squirrels at night. Whenever he  tried it he usually managed to get a good meal. And after he had almost  forgotten about the fright the goshawk had given him in the tall hemlock  he began to roam through the tree-tops every night in search of  squirrels and sleeping birds.

But a night came at last when Fatty was well punished for hunting  squirrels. He had climbed half-way to the top of a big chestnut tree,  when he spied a hole in the trunk. He rather thought that some squirrels  lived inside that hole. And as he listened for a few seconds he could  hear something moving about inside. Yes! Fatty was sure that there was a  squirrel in there--probably several squirrels.

Fatty Coon's eyes turned green. It was a way they had, whenever he was  about to eat anything, or whenever he played with his brother Blackie,  or Fluffy and Cutey, his sisters; or whenever he was frightened. And now  Fatty was so sure that he was going to have a fine lunch that his eyes  turned as green as a cat's. He reached a paw inside the hole and felt  all around.

WOW! Fatty gave a cry; and he pulled his paw out much faster than he had  put it in. Something had given him a cruel dig. And in a jiffy Fatty saw  what that "something" was. It was a grumpy old tramp coon, whom Fatty  had never seen before.

"What do you mean, you young rascal, by disturbing me like this?" the  ragged stranger cried.

"Please, sir, I never knew it was you," Fatty stammered.

"Never knew it was me! Who did you think it was?"

"A--a squirrel!" Fatty said faintly. And he whimpered a little, because  his paw hurt him.

"Ho, ho! That's a good one! That's a good joke!" The tramp coon laughed  heartily. And then he scowled so fiercely that poor Fatty nearly tumbled  out of the tree. "You go home," he said to Fatty. "And don't you let me  catch you around here again. You hear?"

"Yes, sir!" Fatty said. And home he went. And you may be sure that he  let THAT tree alone after that. He never went near it again.
