FATTY VISITS THE SMOKE-HOUSE (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  The winter was fast going. And one fine day in February Fatty Coon crept  out of his mother's house to enjoy the warm sunshine--and see what he  could find to eat.

Fatty was much thinner than he had been in the fall. He had spent so  much of the time sleeping that he had really eaten very little. And now  he hardly knew himself as he looked at his sides. They no longer stuck  out as they had once.

After nosing about the swamp and the woods all the afternoon Fatty  decided that there was no use in trying to get a meal there. The ground  was covered with snow. And except for rabbit tracks--and a few  squirrels'--he could find nothing that even suggested food. And looking  at those tracks only made him hungrier than ever.

For a few minutes Fatty thought deeply. And then he turned about and  went straight toward Farmer Green's place. He waited behind the fence  just beyond Farmer Green's house; and when it began to grow dark he  crept across the barnyard.

As Fatty passed a small, low building he noticed a delicious smell. And  he stopped right there. He had gone far enough. The door was open a  little way. And after one quick look all around--to make sure there was  nobody to see him--Fatty slipped inside.

It was almost dark inside Farmer Green's smokehouse--for that was what  the small, low building was called. It was almost dark; but Fatty could  see just as well as you and I can see in the daytime. There was a long  row of hams hung up in a line. Underneath them were white ashes, where  Farmer Green had built wood fires, to smoke the hams. But the fires were  out, now; and Fatty was in no danger of being burned.

The hams were what Fatty Coon had smelled. And the hams were what Fatty  intended to eat. He decided that he would eat them all--though of course  he could never have done that--at least, not in one night; nor in a  week, either. But when it came to eating, Fatty's courage never failed  him. He would have tried to eat an elephant, if he had had the chance.

Fatty did not stop to look long at that row of hams. He climbed a post  that ran up the side of the house and he crept out along the pole from  which the hams were hung.

He stopped at the very first ham he came to. There was no sense in going  any further. And Fatty dropped on top of the ham and in a twinkling he  had torn off a big, delicious mouthful.

Fatty could not eat fast enough. He wished he had two mouths--he was so  hungry. But he did very well, with only ONE. In no time at all he had  made a great hole in the ham. And he had no idea of stopping. But he did  stop. He stopped very suddenly. For the first thing he knew, something  threw him right down upon the floor. And the ham fell on top of him and  nearly knocked him senseless.

He choked and spluttered; for the ashes filled his mouth and his eyes,  and his ears, too. For a moment he lay there on his back; but soon he  managed to kick the heavy ham off his stomach and then he felt a little  better. But he was terribly frightened. And though his eyes smarted so  he could hardly see, he sprang up and found the doorway.

Fatty swallowed a whole mouthful of ashes as he dashed across the  barnyard. And he never stopped running until he was almost home. He was  puzzled. Try as he would, he couldn't decide what it was that had flung  him upon the floor. And when he told his mother about his adventure--as  he did a whole month later--she didn't know exactly what had happened,  either.

"It was some sort of trap, probably," Mrs. Coon said.

But for once Mrs. Coon was mistaken.

It was very simple. In his greedy haste Fatty had merely bitten through  the cord that fastened the ham to the pole. And of course it had at once  fallen, carrying Fatty with it!

But what do you suppose? Afterward, when Fatty had grown up, and had  children of his own, he often told them about the time he had escaped  from the trap in Farmer Green's smokehouse.

Fatty's children thought it very exciting. It was their favorite story.  And they made their father tell it over and over again.
