FATTY FINDS THE MOON (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Wandering through the woods one day, Fatty Coon's bright eyes caught a  strange gleam from something--something that shone and glittered out of  the green. Fatty wanted to see what it was, though he hardly thought it  was anything to eat. But whenever he came upon something new he always  wanted to examine it. So now Fatty hurried to see what the strange thing  was.

It was the oddest thing he had ever found--flat, round, and silvery; and  it hung in the air, under a tree, just over Fatty's head. Fatty Coon  looked carefully at the bright thing. He walked all around it, so he  could see it from all sides. And at last he thought he knew what it was.  He made up his mind that it was the moon!

He had often seen the moon up in the sky; and here it was, just the same  size exactly, hanging so low that he could have reached it with his paw.  He saw nothing strange in that; for he knew that the moon often touched  the earth. Had he not seen it many a time, resting on the side of Blue  Mountain? One night he had asked his mother if he might go up on the  mountain to play with the moon; but she had only laughed. And here, at  last, was the moon come to him! Fatty was so excited that he ran home as  fast as he could go, to tell his mother, and his brother Blackie, and  Fluffy and Cutey, his sisters.

"Oh! the moon! the moon!" Fatty shouted. He had run so fast that, being  so plump, he was quite out of breath. And that was all he could say.

"Well, well! What about the moon!" Mrs. Coon asked. "Anybody would think  you had found it, almost." And she smiled.

Fatty puffed and gasped. And at last he caught his breath again.

"Yes--I've found it! It's over in the woods--just a little way from  here!" he said. "Big, and round, and shiny! Let's all go and bring it  home!"

"Well, well, well!" Mrs. Coon was puzzled. She had never heard of the  moon being found in those woods; and she hardly knew what to think. "Are  you sure?" she asked.

"Oh, yes, Mother!" Fatty could hardly wait, he was so eager to lead the  way. And with many a shake of the head, Mrs. Coon, with her family,  started off to see the moon.

"There!" Fatty cried, as they came in sight of the bright, round thing.  "There it is--just as I told you!" And they all set up a great shouting.

All but Mrs. Coon. She wasn't quite sure, even yet, that Fatty had  really found the moon. And she walked close to the shining thing and  peered at it. But not too close! Mrs. Coon didn't go too near it. And  she told her children quite sternly to stand back. It was well that she  did; for when Mrs. Coon took her eyes off Fatty's moon and looked at the  ground beneath it--well! she jumped back so quickly that she knocked two  of her children flat on the ground.

A trap! THAT was what Mrs. Coon saw right in front of her. And Farmer  Green, or his boy, or whoever it was that set the trap, had hung that  bright piece of TIN over the trap hoping that one of her family would  see it and play with it--and fall into the trap. Yes--it was a mercy  that Fatty hadn't begun knocking it about. For if he had he would have  stepped right into the trap and it would have shut--SNAP! Just like  that. And there he would have been, caught fast.

It was no wonder that Mrs. Coon hurried her family away from that spot.  And Fatty led them all home again. He couldn't get away from his moon  fast enough.
