FATTY GROWS EVEN FATTER (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  When Fatty Coon's burned feet were well once more, the very first night  he left his mother's house he went straight to the loggers' camp. He did  not wait long after dark, because he was afraid that some of his  neighbors might have found that there were good things to eat about the  camp. And Fatty wanted them all.

To his delight, there were goodies almost without end. He nosed about,  picking up potato peelings, and bits of bacon. And perhaps the best of  all was a piece of cornbread, which Fatty fairly gobbled. And then he  found a box half-full of something--scraps that tasted like apples, only  they were not round like apples, and they were quite dry, instead of  being juicy. But Fatty liked them; and he ate them all, down to the  smallest bit.

He was thirsty, then. So he went down to the brook, which ran close by  the camp. The loggers had cut a hole through the ice, so they could get  water. And Fatty crept close to the edge of the hole and drank. He drank  a great deal of water, because he was very thirsty. And when he had  finished he sat down on the ice for a time. He did not care to stir  about just then. And he did not think he would ever want anything to eat  again.

At last Fatty Coon rose to his feet. He felt very queer. There was a  strange, tight feeling about his stomach. And his sides were no longer  thin. They stuck out just as they had before winter came--only more so.  And what alarmed Fatty was this: his sides seemed to be sticking out  more and more all the time.

He wondered what he had been eating. Those dry things that tasted like  apples--he wondered what they were.

Now, there was some printing on the outside of the box which held those  queer, spongy, flat things. Of course, Fatty Coon could not read, so the  printing did him no good at all. But if you had seen the box, and if you  are old enough to read, you would have known that the printing said:

EVAPORATED APPLES

Now, evaporated apples are nothing more or less than dried apples. The  cook of the loggers' camp used them to make apple pies. And first,  before making his pies, he always soaked them in water so they would  swell.

Now you see what made Fatty Coon feel so queer and uncomfortable. He had  first eaten his dried apples. And then he had soaked them, by drinking  out of the brook. It was no wonder that his sides stuck out, for the  apples that he had bolted were swelling and puffing him out until he  felt that he should burst. In fact, the wonder of it was that he was  able to get through his mother's doorway, when he reached home.

But he did it, though it cost him a few groans. And he frightened his  mother, too.

"I only hope you're not poisoned," she said, when Fatty told her what he  had been doing.

And that remark frightened Fatty more than ever. He was sure he was  never going to feel any better.

Poor Mrs. Coon was much worried all the rest of the night. But when  morning came she knew that Fatty was out of danger. She knew it because  of something he said. It was this:

"Oh, dear! I wish I had something to eat!"
