FATTY COON AT HOME (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Fatty Coon was so fat and round that he looked like a ball of fur, with  a plumelike tail for a handle. But if you looked at him closely you  would have seen a pair of very bright eyes watching you.

Fatty loved to eat. Yes--he loved eating better than anything else in  the world. That was what made him so fat. And that, too, was what led  him into many adventures.

Close by a swamp, which lay down in the valley, between Blue Mountain  and Swift River, Fatty Coon lived with his mother and his brother and  his two sisters. Among them all there was what grown people call "a  strong family resemblance," which is the same thing as saying that they  all looked very much alike. The tail of each one of them--mother and  children too--had six black rings around it. Each of them had a dark  brown patch of fur across the face, like a mask. And--what do you  think?--each of them, even Fatty and his brother and his sisters, had a  stiff, white moustache!

Of course, though they all looked so much alike, you would have known  which was Mrs. Coon, for she was so much bigger than her children. And  you would have known which was Fatty--he was so much rounder than his  brother and his sisters.

Mrs. Coon's home was in the hollow branch of an old tree. It was a giant  of a tree--a poplar close by a brook which ran into the swamp--and the  branch which was Mrs. Coon's home was as big as most tree-trunks are.

Blackie was Fatty's brother--for the mask on his face was just a little  darker than the others'. Fluffy was one of Fatty's sisters, because her  fur was just a little fluffier than the other children's. And Cutey was  the other sister's name, because she was so quaint.

Now, Fatty Coon was forever looking around for something to eat. He was  never satisfied with what his mother brought home for him. No matter how  big a dinner Mrs. Coon set before her family, as soon as he had finished  eating his share Fatty would wipe his white moustache carefully--for all  the world like some old gentleman--and hurry off in search of something  more.

Sometimes he went to the edge of the brook and tried to catch fish by  hooking them out of the water with his sharp claws. Sometimes he went  over to the swamp and hunted for duck among the tall reeds. And though  he did not yet know how to catch a duck, he could always capture a frog  or two; and Fatty ate them as if he hadn't had a mouthful of food for  days.

To tell the truth, Fatty would eat almost anything he could get--nuts,  cherries, wild grapes, blackberries, bugs, small snakes, fish, chickens,  honey--there was no end to the different kinds of food he liked. He ate  everything. And he always wanted more.

"Is this all there is?" Fatty Coon asked his mother one day. He had  gobbled up every bit of the nice fish that Mrs. Coon had brought home  for him. It was gone in no time at all.

Mrs. Coon sighed. She had heard that question so many times; and she  wished that for once Fatty might have all the dinner he wanted.

"Yes--that's all," she said, "and I should think that it was enough for  a young coon like you."

Fatty said nothing more. He wiped his moustache on the back of his hand  (I hope you'll never do that!) and without another word he started off  to see what he could find to eat.
