FERDINAND FROG IS IN NO HURRY (Fable:- Ages 0 to 3)

  Although everybody in the Beaver village looked worried, Mr. Frog seemed  to be all the more cheerful. He knew well enough that there was hardly  one Beaver in the pond that didn't wish and long for clothes which were,  like Mr. Frog's, five years ahead of the times.

As day after day passed, not only were the Beavers unable to do a single  stroke of work; they were so upset that they could scarcely eat or  sleep. And at last the older villagers, such as Grandaddy Beaver, began  to see that something would have to be done. There was the dam, which  needed mending; and there was the winter's food, which had to be  gathered.

So Grandaddy Beaver went to Ferdinand Frog one day and told him that he  simply _must_ come to the rescue of the pond folk, and tell them how  they might have clothes as far ahead of the times as were his own.

"Why?" Mr. Frog inquired. "What's the trouble?"

"They can't work," Grandaddy Beaver told him. "And there's the dam to be  fixed, and tree-tops to be cut and stored for food, because winter's  a-coming, and there's no way we can stop it."

"I'll tell you what you and your people can do," Ferdinand Frog replied.  "Just bury yourselves in the mud during the winter, as I do, and you'd  have no use for a dam, nor for food, either."

But Grandaddy Beaver explained that though such a plan might suit a Frog  exceedingly well, for a Beaver it would never do at all.

"You have got us into this scrape," he told Mr. Frog, "so it's only fair  that you should help us out of it."

Ferdinand Frog then did a number of things, all of which were intended  to let Grandaddy Beaver see that what he asked couldn't be done. Mr.  Frog held up his hands with the palms out and rolled his eyes; he shut  his great mouth together as if he did not intend to say another word. He  looked so determined that Grandaddy Beaver's heart sank.

And then--when Grandaddy Beaver had almost given up all hope--then Mr.  Frog said suddenly:

"I'll consent to help you, because I see that it's my duty."

"Good!" Grandaddy Beaver cried. "I told people that I knew you'd come to  our rescue, for you have such a kind face! . . .

"And now, tell me!" he bade Ferdinand Frog with great eagerness, while  he held a hand behind one of his ears, in order to hear more clearly.

But Mr. Frog was not ready to give away his secret.

He winked at Grandaddy Beaver, and poked his fingers into the old  gentleman's ribs.

"Not so fast, my lad!" said Mr. Frog, who was certainly many years  younger than Grandaddy Beaver. "I'm not prepared to explain everything  to you just yet.

"You come to the big rock on the other side of the pond as soon as it's  dark to-night; and bring with you everybody who wants to know how to  get clothes like mine.

"Now, do exactly as I say," Mr. Frog cautioned Grandaddy, "and  _everything will be made easy_."
